.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev S. Hebich, Cannanore, pd

                                                        Calicut 16 Dec 1849
Lieber Alter <und unten My dear wife!>*

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 16 Dec 1849
Hiemit schliesse ich Dir "Oertlichkeiten" fÅr die liebe Committee ein: da-
mit wenigstens einer ihrer WÅnsche bald erfÅllt werde. Lie· das durch und
lege es zu dem Zeitungswunsch, der Dir wohl zugeschickt worden ist. Ich
denke Du wirst das alles noch liegen lassen kînnen bis ich komme. Denn wenn
es etwa Freitag fortgeht ists bald genug. Bis dahin besinne Dich auch Åber
die unserer Station verwilligten Summen. Wo jedermann ausfÅhrlich geschrie-
ben hat dÅrfen wir nicht den Schein annehmen als hÑtten wirs vergessen. Der
HErr leite uns richtig. Was Du von Searles Sohn schreibst freut mich, auch
Deine Predigt auf den Strassen. Nicht aber Dein halbverrissen werden um der
BÅcher willen, welchem sicherlich in den meisten FÑllen ein Ganz verrissen
werden der BÅcher nachfolgt. Deine Schweine im Bazar wissen nichts besseres
damit zu machen. Wer was will kommt Dir sicherlich gern ins Haus. - Freut
mich da· Friederichs kamen - sie sind aber fast zu schnell fort - Fritz
freut sich des Geldes - Huber seines neuen Telescopes mit dem ich schon
Sonnenflecken gesehen habe! Kinloch hier, Conolly war 3 Stunden bei ihm -
wozu? Nun lebe wohl In Liebe Dein
.fo -
                                   HGdt
.fo +


My dear wife

Excuse me for answering so seldom your many welcome letters. Also this time
I am in hurry. Samuel writes concerned about my illness - he was very "lu-
stig" im Herbst der Tante Emma. (shooting etc you know is a necessary thing
in the vintage) He is the 7th - Herm the 3d at school, all anxious for
Christmass for ice and snow - grain fruits and wine grew plentifully and
cheap. - Papa is somewhat frightened about me, recommends strongly the cod-
liveroil. - Theodor Mîgling condemned to death, recommended to mercy, is
now for 10 years prisoner in the penitentiary of Bruchsal not yet healed -
the "internal mission" has become a fashion, and the business is carried on
in very light and worldly style - our Boys truly obedt and diligent, kept
strictly enough and yet full of confidence to Papa and Mama. Love to all -
The letter I send on to Mîglg as he will be interested in what concerns his
brother - The week has now commenced in which I hope to return, though I do
not like to predict the day, to keep you watchful and on the look out. I
dined with Hubers at Conolly's on Friday - feel much relieved, though the
Dr nauseates me a little - Fred is taking his medecines very quietly but
sometimes irritable in consequence. Isabella well, plenty Selams to all.
Fr's eye is glowing, when I relate to him the steps of our probable return
by way of Chombala, Cannanore, bandy, Chiracal. Now with love farewell
.fo -
                                 Yours HG.
16 Dec.
.ns
.dr HG161249.2
