.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                     Calw <Basel> 28 Jun 75
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 28 Jun 75
Jul has written that we arrived, also Joh has sent somethg to his wife.
Here now follows what I got today from Dav and my letter for India. Let
Fred read it and send it with Joh's circular on the 1st July (with new
stamps, perhaps cheaper) to Mangalore.

Mrs Ecklin died very quietly. Her last word was, after sipping a spoonful
of wine: Es geht doch nichts Åber so nen alte Wi. You cannot write a tract
about it or could you?
.
Her son spoke yesterday evening warmly in Rathsherr Christ's garden. I
dined with Dettinger's yesterday, Joh also (but not Georg and Emma) - there
was much Asante talk as Rams. and KÅhne were there too. He thanks particu-
larly Rickele Schîttle for the nice shirt.

This morning we were with Pf Sarasin in the special Cfce In England 4600 ú
have been collected for the As. Mission and something more may yet come. I
hope to hear something about Mrs SchÅz and how Emily feels rewarded for her
giving up the trip.

I supped yesterday with Insp's who said that 4 married Miss[ionar]ies will
go out in autumn Mack Hartm Schoch and? Mrs Hartm I saw, the one from Ap-
penzell, she greets Mary very heartily. Brigel relates much about Mang. but
I have not yet heard any thing referring to Sam in particular.

I hope Papa H. is getting stronger and enjoys his granddaughter's agreeable
Society. Nath. W. is said to suffer more on the heart, so that after all
his return may be only a question of time. - Joh eats today with Kober's.
Josenhans' daughters praise Mrs Kober very much as holding very good wom-
en's meetings.

So Goodbye with best love to Jett, Fred, Emma, Marie, Miss Thomas and the
Weitbrechts (Lucas Legrand greets esp. Mrs Scheffel with emphasis) Yours
.fo -
                                   HGdt.
.ns
.dr HG280675.2
