.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                              Calw 9 Jan 73
Lieber Fried

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 9 Jan 73
Es geht natÅrlich noch sehr confus zu, kam 10 1/2 nach Calw, erzÑhlte 1/2
Stunde lang, Mar dann zu E ihr Alles mitzutheilen. Aber Arbeit genug. Ich
bitte Gott, da· es Dir mit der Deinen gut gehe und ein Segen auf Deinen
Fang in St gelegt werde. Rob ist noch nicht gekommen, kommt vielleicht auch
nicht. Mama wohl und Tante Uranie hat den Frost lieber als NÑsse. Carl sehr
unterhaltend auf SpaziergÑngen leitet noch immer die conversazione. Ich war
fÅr Dav auf OAmt, wo noch AnstÑnde gemacht werden; der Bf von Herm war noch
nicht bei Dav. Bitte sende hin.

1000 GrÅ·e von Allen. Es kÅ·t
                               Dein V.


.fo -

                                                     611le 10ten J<an. 1873>*
My dearest Frederic

.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Julie Gundert auf angeklebtem Zettel.
.fo +
How rejoiced was I to hear that it is going on better than we had expected
at first and that you could just find your friend John Muller as companion
in the work was perhaps from God too; We have much to thank our Lord, You
find perhaps as myself, as long one is in a sort of trouble or anxiety one
prays often and try to rest and trust God alone, and when it is easyer,
lighter one becomes less bound and dÇpendant on the Lord. We are bad chil-
dren. He must have a great deal of patience with us till we really learn to
take all as grace and give thank injoying continually with gratitude and
confidence. May the Lord keep your heart fixed, settled upon Him, in quiet-
ness and patience. About Steiger verlobung you will have heard.

Adieu my dear son
.fo -
                                  Y J.G.

la belle Bibel que tu as envoyÇ Ö Uranie lui fait exträmement plaisir, elle
t'en remercie de tout son coeur et moi aussi.
.ns
.dr HG100173
