.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                             Calw 17 Jan 73
Lieber Friedrich

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 17 Jan 73
Gestern Abd also kam das Concert zu Stande, und war nett. Marie las ihre
Verse nachher bei einem Thee den Fr Roos den Mitwirkerinnen bereitete, wozu
auch Decan und Neuffer noch kamen. Letzterer grÅ·t herzlich, er besuchte
uns und macht bald sein examen.

Halt Du nur am Herrn Jesus fest ohne zu seciren. Das ist das Kreuz des Ge-
lehrten da· Er die thîrichte Predigt eingesetzt und ihr allein Frucht ver-
hei·en hat.

Ist Dein Schnupfen wieder davon? Ich hoffe Du hÑltst Dich vorsichtig, um
der Leber willen. Die verlangt auch da· Du Dich der Sorgen um so vieles
entschlagest und einfach von Tag zu Tag Deinen Weg in Jesu Fu·tapfen aufsu-
chest und gehest. Du wirst es immer sicherer treffen, je frîhlicher Du fÅr
das Hauptziel zu Ihm aufblickst. Schaut Er doch Åberaus theilnehmend auf
alle unsere Siebensachen herab. Nur sich nicht erhitzen lassen!

                          Nun Adieu Es kÅ·t Dein
.fo -
                                                   V.


                                                   <Calw 19/20 Janr 1873.>*
611My dearest Frederic

.an 2
----------
1. Brief von Julie Gundert auf angeklebtem Blatt.
.fo +
Today sunday We look forward to get a letter from you tomorrow, I am glad
for you that Johaness M. is with you, I had two good stunde or meetings one
in french which Uranie values very much, I hope it will do her good helping
her to get ridd of the doubtes which troubel her still,

Monday a good letter from you for which many thanks. As Emma was just here
I gave it her to read which she did smiling in a great hurry. The remark
you make about John if our heart condem us God is greater and sees deeper
than ourselves in our heart and mistakes, therefore we are to humble our-
selves and see to get a good concience sprinkled in the blood of Christ and
so watch and pray that our robes be not made unclean Steinhofer speaks in
the same manner; but also comforting one, a child of Good who is continual-
ly condemned by his heart on a point must take heed. God will keep us from
such state and give us great and joyful confidence with assurance. Your
letter has given joy.

Love from Uranie and Yours affectionate
.fo -
                                   J.G.

I am very sorry to hear that you have headach and hope that it will soon
part
.ns
.dr HG210173
