.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                           <ca 7/8 Oct 56>*
                                      <v 5-10 Oct Fischer auf Kudre Mukh)>*

My dear Mr Fisher

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <ca 7/8 Oct 56>*
As we have heard news from Oodapi which may be the first specimen of a new
batch, though it is just as possible that the matter may stop there, I
think it right to keep you informed of our side of the question. On Sunday
5 Oct. when Timma, a new Candidate for baptism, came from Calyanpur for the
first Sunday service to Oodapi, 4 men broke into his house, bound his un-
cle, carried off his blind mother, forced open a box and took money, plates
etc away, cutting also coconuts down before they left the garden. Ammann
begged the Tahsildar to send a peon out with his servant, but he would not,
but demanded that the injured persons should formally complain. A's servant
found the man still bound and reported what he saw. On the 6th the Tahsil-
dar, upon A's repeated request, sent the Duffedar* out, and then the per-
sons attacked came to the Cutcherry and related the story. It appears that
a Bant, Manjeya Hegade, is the instigator of the outrage. He boasts to
drive away the Padre and his people though it should cost him some 1000's
of Rupees. This man is said to have forged a document against Timme, which
the Tahsildar declared to be false; but on referring the matter to the Col-
lector (I do not know which C.) the document was found correct, which seems
to have emboldened the man. He appears to glory in his intimacy with some
of your servants, from whom he will have heard that you also are no friend
of the Padres, since you forbid the Tahsildar to procure supplies for A.
The Tahsildar is sure that he has not communicated the latter bit of intel-
ligence to the Bant. Excuse my writing you such trash, but I thought it
best for once to write these trifles just as I heard them.

I ought to apologize also for thinking these news important enough to trou-
ble you with on your excursion: but perhaps you may also think that a lit-
tle severity just now may save a world of trouble here after.

Wishing you every enjoyment desirable
.fo -
                                 I remain
                                   Yours sincerely
                                              H Gundert

Anf Oct 56
.ns
.dr HG071056.2
