.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                           Calw 3d Nov 1861
Dear Papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 3d Nov 1861
Yesterday came two big letters one containing great many of the notices
about the conference. I gave them to Muller who has sent them to their ad-
dresses, the one of Rieg I took meself, but he had gone for a walk with
Miss Mayer, Muller told me that R had been very kind to him and even beged
to be excused for having been hasty in speaking about the boy who died in
the hospital! The second letter from Mîg contained besides these enclosed;
four which have been forwarded by Mr. Weibrecht. Here all as usual. I trust
you have a good day in Bahligen and that dear Ernst receives also bless-
ings. We are anxious to hear how is Victor going on. Mrs. WÅrz is pretty
well, she will give me a old bedstead for David. I bought the other things
in the auction. You should perhaps get a ham or Schinken as you had last
winter tell Mama about it, also a big Wurst for your supper here one does
not get such good ones as in Stut

Now with love 2to all1 specially to Marie
.fo -
                                   Yours
                                      J. Gundert



611Lieber Papa
.an 2
----------
1. Brief von Friedrich Gundert auf der RÅckseite des obigen Briefes.

.fo +
Du wirst Dich vielleicht verwundern da· dieser Brief so verrunzelt ist,
aber es kommt daher, weil wir auf alle mîgliche Arten probirt haben ihn oh-
ne Envelloppe fortzuschicken, aber es hat nicht gereicht. Ich wei· fast
nichts und doch die Mama gesagt ich solle Dir ein wenig schreiben.

Wie geht es in Stuttgart!

Die Frau WÅrz ist wieder besser und der Herr WÅrz hat schon viele Briefe
geschrieben. Es geht mir ganz gut dort, ich darf jetzt viel im Laden seyn
und Rechg. schreiben. Auch einen Brief hab ich dÅrfen schreiben den wir 3.
der alte Herr und die Frau und ich studiert haben.

Heute ist das Ernte Dank Fest, wo dann FrÅchte auf dem Altar sind.

.fo -
                               Es grÅ·t Dich
                                           Dein
                                              Sohn
                                                 Friedrich
.ns
.dr HG041161
