.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev J Josenhans

2privat1                                                     Chir 10 Maerz 54

Lieber Bruder <Josenhans>*

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 10 Maerz 54
Um Dich auf dem Laufenden zu erhalten copire ich aus einem Brief Sandersons
etliche SÑtze, bitte Dich aber die· fÅr Dich zu behalten. "About a fort-
night ago I saw a letter from Stokes (der Brief Sand's v. 17 Jan) to the
Secry of the Church Missy Socy in which he mentioned Mîgl's case, his in-
tention of offering himself to the Church Mission in case your Comm. re-
fused to take up Coorg, and urging them not to reject his offer. They sent
also to Mr Arthur with whom I am living a letter from M. to the Raja of
Coorg's daughter and one in Canarese from Stephanas to the Raja himself,
which he got me to read to him. The Raja lives near us and has spent sever-
al evenings with us. He is always glad to have any attention as he does not
know a word of English. He seems to have no serious relig. feeling though
he has completely adopted English modes of living - but he finds more
rogues here than he left in India. ....611 I shall be very sorry if M sepa-
rate from your Mission you need his presence and he will never be so happy
else where. In fact unless there be a better reason than unpleasantness I
cannot think that any man has a better sphere than that in which God first
placed him. - Men are seldom 2singly1 right, though collectively Committees
may often be in the wrong. M. like all good men will be more useful in com-
pany and in the company of 2his own brethren1." Dann die gro·e Klage da·
Church and Dissenters keine men fÅr Missions habe, die Methodisten nicht
money genug.
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. .... im Original.
.fo +

Es freut mich und ich gratulire Dir dazu, da· der HErr es Dir gelingen
lie·, die Kinderfrage zu einer solchen Entscheidung zu bringen. Ein Bruder
schreibt: jetzt wolle er nicht mehr schimpfen, ein anderer: jetzt sey es
wieder eine Freude zu arbeiten. Da· Du die Kinder 2sobald1 haben willst, war
eine besonders gelungene Wendung der Sache. Jetzt hÑlt jeder Vater die Sei-
nen noch gern etwas lÑnger fest. Ich hîre gerade da· ein Dr Barker von Cann
der seine Frau heimsenden wollte, in Bomb kein Passagierschiff ausfindig
machen konnte. Freight ist theuer gerade jetzt. Ich glaube daher nicht da·
wir vor dem Monsun etwas finden werden: und das ist mir in sofern lieb, als
es mir dann auch reicht den Paul noch auszurÅsten, falls er zugleich mit
Fr. heimzugehen Gelegenheit hÑtte.

Mîgl. hat mit Freuden ja gesagt, (in einem Brief an Heb.) besonders ist ihm
die nebendraus angewiesene Stellung lieb. Sein Vater, hofft er, bleibt im-
merhin noch etliche Jahre am Leben, und solang will er bestimmt in Indien
arbeiten. Nun lebe wohl. Der HErr richte auch Deine liebe Frau auf und gebe
Dir Alles was Du von Tag zu Tag bedarfst.
.fo -
                              In Ihm Dein HG
.ns
.dr HG130354
