.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
<Frau Martin-Schmerber, Missionsstra·e 12, z.g.H.>611
.an 2
----------
1. Adresse auf altem Blatt, das Hermann Gundert fÅr seinen Brief benutzte.

                                                             Bale 2 July 66
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 2 July 66
Arrived 5'30" on Saturday afternoon, the end of the way with Irion F MÅller
Scholl, Emilie MÅller. Saw here Insp. etc and Reutlinger from America who
brings Julia II's photography. I enclose it.

Had to hold the Martinsstunde, yesterday, went then into Christ's garden
where Scholl related divers pieces of inner Mission. Few guests, viz. about
half the former number

At 10 o'clock PM returned to my room and found your letter for which many
thanks. So I could write the good piece of news to America whither my let-
ter starts this morning. Shall write to India in the course of the day and
send the photography with the hope that the original will follow in Sept. I
feel with you that the Lord has done this and thank Him heartily for accom-
plishing our desire in His own way. May He now further it to the glory of
His name! We may be sure that He has the best intentions which is more than
can be said of us, but somehow or other we also learn a little to find them
out and like them tho' through many mistakes. There are no later news here
of Samuel. It seems a letter must have been delayed. I thank the dear Isen-
bergs for their readiness to follow the leadings of our Heavenly father.
Please send them this poor scroll - I had no other paper than this and they
will excuse the shortness of the note for I must go to the special Confer-
ence which is very early this morning. There will also be a speech for me
on Thursday and other occupations so that I can hardly write any more.
Again but thanks to Mama I. and Elizabeth, and may they be supported by the
Lord in the separation that is now preparing for them. I hope Eliz. may
soon come to Calw and find from day to day that she has a good father who
cares for her and gives her all she wants for the mere asking!

Farewell now - I hope your health is none the worse for your exertions.
.fo -
                                 Your HG.
.ns
.dr HG020766.2
