.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                       Calw 21 October 1866
My dear Frederic

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 21 October 1866
Although I have written you not long ago I will prepare a few lines that
when Marie's letter comes I may send them. To day we were in Hirsau, where
also Mr Buser, his daughter Fritz W. Mrs. Lamparter, Schnierle Zahn Knor
and others were too. papa spoke on the blind born man Schnierle was some
what excited on account of his mother who reprouved him as he returned from
the country where he had gone about to buy wine, she had sent him; but he
paid perhaps too much or should have gone to another place! poor woman she
lives still for the world and its goods which are mammon and the poor sons
should like her be full of care how to gather more such mamon

Julius Dreiss came to visit his Aunt; I met him; as he is but for two days
here he could not visit us, He told me after inquiries after you that he
has no time to see you nor David he has much to do; his sister who is also
here told me that she fears for him He is not right with the Lord and
therefore finds no time.

How are you dear Son? I hope that you had a good day and got through Gods
word many blessings. I hope to hear soon from you

Love to all in your house
.fo -
                                Yours J.G.

611Zahn wÅnscht, da· Du ihm einen Schawl schickst, aber bald; 2einen1 wenn Du
schon wei·st, was ihm pa·t (etwa 2 Fl 36 C glaube ich), ein paar, wenn Du
fÅr besser hÑltst, da· er eine Wahl vornimmt.

621Have you sent the Juppe to Paul if it is not clean send it to me.

.fo -
.an 3
----------
1. AnfÅgung von Hermann Gundert.
2. AnfÅgung von Julie Gundert.
.ns
.an 2
----------
1. Brief von Julie Gundert auf angeklebtem Zettel.
                                                        611Calw 25th Oct 1866
My dear Friederich

.fo +
Many thanks for your letter by which we see that through too much trouble
you got headach, I am very sorry for it; but I trust that a good night has
taken it away.

I regrett that I am still going to give you trouble too, that is about
Meerretig if you could please ask perhaps the girl of Caroline or tante
when they go on the marquet not expres; but when they go to buy for us for
1 Gulden of the 2biggest1 and 2finest frishest1 meerredig. pardon my troubling
you and others you may send them to me at the end of November with your
wash I will still write about the time you are to send it. Ask the people
there whether one has now the new meerredig or whether one must wait longer
to buy them excuse dear son I wish you a good time
.fo -
                                yours J.G

Love to all with you
.ns
.dr HG221066
