.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                             Calw 12 Mai 72
Liebe Sîhne

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 12 Mai 72
Nur einen herzlichen Gru· nachdem ich gestern Abd 10 Uhr zurÅckgekehrt bin
- 24 stÅndige Reise, gemildert durch Fahrt in 2. Classe von Brem bis Hei-
delbg, mit Wurm gemeinschaftlich. Also wohl da, mit Briefen und Sachen um-
lagert, wovon Correcturen zunÑchst Befriedigung verlangten. Sam und Herm
haben beide geschrieben, ich konnte es aber noch nicht verdauen. Schlunk
bes. grÅ·t Dich herzlich, es war nett in seinem Hause und seine Kinder
schlo·en sich sehr zutraulich an. Ich habe mehr Geld ein- als ausgefÅhrt,
mu· ich auch noch bemerken. Nach Barm reichte es nicht, Robinson wollte 10
Mai in Brindisi landen, er kann mich zu jeder Zeit nach Stuttg fordern. Die
Verhandlungen waren glaub ich gesegnet. Das Zusammenleben sehr erfrischend.
Aus jenen Bemerkungen <"Fr Gundert zu frei" gegen Frohnmeyer>* Jos's nimm
Dir eben was Du brauchen kannst, im Åbrigen la· Dichs nicht zu sehr angrei-
fen. Herzlich grÅ·t und kÅ·t
.fo -
                                  Euer V.


                                                        <ca. 11 Mai 1872.>*
611Dear Frederic
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Julie Gundert auf angeklebtem Blatt.
.fo +

Many thanks for your letters. it is always a great joy to me to hear from
you both. We hear that Mr Buser is worse here one is prepared to hear of
his departure for a better world. the Wîhrles are of course much grieved
not having a living boy. Please give my hearty love to dear Johanes F Let
the Lord guide you in your communion together that in one way you profit by
each other and in the other hand you give no offense or occasion to talk to
those who suround you, specially avoied speaking together on the brethren
or any one else. we can create as difficult moments as also get leaness for
our souls, With the Lord to Him we have to have intercourse together. then
it profittes and we keep a good conscience.

Your case we bring often before the Lord that He may soon care for you,
however we say according to thy will. Yea His will not ours. we must have
patience, all who are in Heaven have learnt, the discipels will have found
long the ten days of waiting for the promise of their departed Lord. With-
out the fulfilment of it they could do nothing. So has the Lord waited 30
years before He could show who He was. So we too, learnen* wollen with Gods
grace so that patience gets its ful reward

Adieu dear Son
.fo -
                           Yours affectly J. G.

.fo +
Mrs Schaufter would not sleep with us, she came about 6 having taken a car-
riage in Pforzeim, she went at 7 Oc to Buhlach So I did not see much of
her, she was expected in Buhlach the same evening

We liked much your pastor from Suweden.
.ns
.dr HG150572
