.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                  Calicut first March <60>*
Dear Papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: first March <60>*
We have received nothing I think since we wrote; but are expecting daily.
The dear children will be desapointed to hear that the Ship leave this only
at the end of march I am too; but patience must learn. The Lord has done
hitherto wonderfully and will still do. I send here a bill from Pfleiderer
for 700 Rs. An other one a gift of Coll Carr 300 will follow soon. that
will enable you to purchas what is wanted. I long to hear how you are; but
how you are in your new place we shall not I suppose till we reach England
in July that will be a long time without news! on the high waves now and
then as it were under them! You pray for us with many other friends I know.
Mrs Allcock is said to be pious it is a comfort at least, her husband is
seeking they say, they have four children going along. besides this Capt
and family. We have been asked to take charge of two young Clarck from Ti-
nivaly one 8. the other 6 years of age, they have a servant Some other peo-
ple from Cochin are said to be inquiring to go too by that Ship. I regret
we could not go by Steamer, for we might have been there in April.

In six days we have performed our journey to Telli, Cannanore. The first
day to Coilandy hot place Esau nice, his wife some what displeased with
being always sick, people are poor, wish for more help. At Chombala next
day, on the road to it saw Timothius who looked after the Building he is to
occupy at Moovaratiu*, the first christian there you know he heard the gos-
pel from you 12 years ago, he is called Samuel now. his brother and wife,
mother, wife sister have been baptised it is a nice place and the people
appear to be fine christians too. At Chombala had a meeting with the women
a very great number, Pauls wife sighs after the time the Mullers were there
many other people too. Paul himself says we go down and not up; life seems
to be so controled by the out ward means, that they feel as it were pressed
down in every way. Women getting no more work since Bess is gone make them
to regret Mrs M very much. Diez was just covering his house, very much the
same in talk and ways, he wishes to go to Coonoor for his wifes confine-
ment. Doctor says he is not wanted. she says he ought to come!

At Tellicherry, less life it appeared to me than at Chombala, Women com-
plaining there is no more a mother, Newly married people seem to live more
for each other than in old days, with all the new couples it is the same to
be happy with each other showing much love even kisses as* the Nights* did
before the people Only the Harres are wiser though in reallity they are as
happy as the others, she told it me herself; she is a fine woman, ready for
work and fatigue, they now live in the upper house vis a vis the Catchery.
He is nice too, she expects her confinement every day. Mrs Al very weak
body, she suffers much in her breast cannot nurse. She had an abces in one
the next one seems to be getting one too, She is a gentle good creature
very willing to serve the Lord it seems; but not able to do much, she was
glad to hear of many little things which I thought she should do with women
and children, showed a good mind to do it! Almost all came to see us; but
there is some thing dry and formal, except in Isabella who is still the
same nice and cheerful. Matu too was nice. Irion and the brethren very kind
to us, At Cananore found Abraham whom Muller had kindly called from Talipa-
rambu to see me. Dear Muller was very tender and affectionate now and then
tears running down his cheeks. We lived in the Shlunk's house who were very
kind to us too, the brethern came to dine with us, and the next day we
dined with them in Muller's house that is to say in Heb. there also the
women are regretting Mrs. Muller, she did for them what they could, Many
lament all the old missionaries are gone what is to become of us, Saw Chi-
racal Joseph there very nice full of love and chearful, He with Abraham
Stockings Obraion Timothious live in communion and prayers they are the
noyau or curnal of the church it is truly sweet to see and hear them, Timo-
thious has much profited by the death of his wife. I felt truly happy in
their midst. At Chovay much death not even coming to preaching or prayer
many of them. Joseph Candapen has married an Eastindian from Cotayam
school, nice young looking wedow, well dressed, he quite stout and well
dressed too thow he has but 5 Rs per month, either she brought him money or
he is not faithful in the work as salt-godown pion, I heard that he lends
money. The brethren with Shlunk not in good terms, no communion, Also not
much in Telli they say that Shl likes to put himself forward. Hanhart is
liked very much by all the people also Muller; but Reihhart is disliked one
does not think him converted as well white brethren that is soldiers and
Catechists he has no good name neither with black nor white, some even
think him to be a puseyite, With us he was most kind and polite; but I
could not help being very serious and cold, I would have liked to speak
with him, and just as I intended to do it, I heard the news that the Capt
of our Ship was a drunkard and that we would be the only passangers, after
a few hours of anxiety during which time Capt Haultain took much trouble to
ascertain all about it we heard that Capt Allcock who had telegram to Co-
chin to our Capt who was there with his ship had received a favorable an-
swer about a Cabine and would go too, as he is ship or Sea Capt I feel more
confidence, the report that Capt Bond drinks could not be proved for cer-
tain. These news came just as we were leaving Cannanore. Had the bad report
been true about the Capt and the Allcock had not gone I would not have gone
by that Ship alone with Marie. I regretted much I could not speak with Re
He goes to Rehnious has friendship with him while in secret he has got back
from the Mission three young soldiers. Obr<ien>* is furious against Reh-
nious and Rehnhart. You have heard that two officers with some soldiers
have been converted, Haultain is evidently blessed for them.

No particulars as yet about Gompertz, Carr who has written twice from Ma-
dras is much grieved to have to meet his reg with out Gom. He seems to be
very nice Carr, had a mind to finish his life with us had we stayed here,
sends us presents from Bangale, to you much love.

Here it goes pretty well Lauffer made 338 Rs profit last year, Convert nice
with the people, does all he can. Luke's wife has died after a long sick-
ness. Esther is coming round has confessed to Eliesar that Mariam wanted
her to run away with him! Mrs Grant is going to the hills, she pays Lydia's
expenses to Samuel who takes care of her with the dear Ann.

Now with love to all our dear people specially to Mama Sister, tante, who
perhaps are beginning your household or house keeping
.fo -
                                         I remain yours affectly
                                                          Julie Gundert

Irion gave up smoking and is much better the digetion more easy. Do write
to Carr if you can.



____________________________611Rs__2As1
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Marie Gundert.
.
Luthers Tischreden          _ 1 - 0 _C. Moerike
Stier's Jesaias              _1 - 8  G. Richter
3 BÅchle v. Steinhofer zus. _ 2 - 8  Richter
3 v. Oetinger zusammen      _ 0 -12  Schlunk, Lauffer und Pfleiderer
N.T. von Hahn                _0 - 4  Aldinger
Epheser von Hahn             _0 - 4  Aldinger
Schmid Theologie des N.T.    _4 - 0  Moegling
MÅller geistl. Erquickst.    _0 - 6  Richter
Roos christl. Glaubenslehre  _0 - 8  Moegling
Knapp Christoterpe 37-40      2 - 0  Aldinger
Schubert Naturgesch          _3 - 0  Schoch
Most Encyclopadie der ch.    _2 - 0  Pfleiderer
Berghaus Geographie         __3 - 0  Moegling
Hofmann Erdbeschreibg        _8 - 0  Diez
Reuschle besch. Geographie   _1 - 0  Schoch
Ranke Gesch. Deutschland's   _3 - 0  Richter
Raumer Hohenstaufen          _3 - 0  Richter
Grimm Deutsche Mythologie    _4 - 0  Pfleiderer
Pilpay Fables                _0 - 8  Moegling
Barth Christian Missions     _1 - 0  Subaya
Wardlaw Drew's memoirs       _0 - 8  Herre
Malan* life of Louis de CondÇ 1 - 0  Schoch
Sherwood lady of the Manor   _2 - 0  Richter
Shakespeare Dramatic works   _4 - 0  Moegling (Du hattest 2 eines bring ich
                                     Dir mit)
Malan l'Ami des enfants      _2 - 0  Miss Will
Bruder Augustini Confessiones_0 -12  Convert
Platonis Opera               _2 - 0  Moegling
Stieler Handatlas            _8 - 0  Moegling
Bach ChorÑle                 _2 - 0  Lauffer
Layritz Liedersammlung       _1 - 0  Lauffer
HÑndel's Messias             _3 - 8  Pfleiderer
4 von Jeremias Gotthelf     _10 - 4  Schoch und Richter

.fo +
The books of Graff and Grimm we shall take home with us and some others
too, which cannot sell and wd be of value to you The rest we leave with
Convert and then you can give him orders about them Of course all the Na-
tive Books and most of the English we take home, they are already packed. -
Perhaps some more books may sell here and then I would write to you next
time what remains with Convert. Is it right or wrong? -

Soeben kommt Dein lieber Brief vom 16ten Febr. Herzlichen Dank, lieber Pa-
pa. An Moerike habe ichs gleich abgeschickt.
.ns
.dr HG010360.2
