.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev S. Hebich

                                                        Basel Charfreitg 60
                                                                 <6 April>*
Lieber Alter <Hebich>*
.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <6 April>* 60

.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier vgl. Brief von Julie Gundert vom 1.3.60.
Da ich heute indische news erhalten habe und morgen abreise, will ich noch
kurz was mittheilen. Frau und Marie besuchten Chomb Tell und Cann.611 MÅller
lie· ihnen Abraham von Talip kommen. M selbst war sehr zart und fein, oft
in ThrÑnen. The women regret Mrs M (as they did at Tell. Mrs Ir.) she did
for them what she could. Many lament that all the old Miss'ies are gone
what is to become of us - Saw Chiracal Joseph - who is very nice full of
love and cheerful. He with Abr Stock Obr Timoth live in communion and pray-
ers. They are the kernel of the Church and it is truly sweet to see and
hear them. Tim. has much profited by the death of his wife. I felt truly
happy in their midst. At Chovva much death - many come not even to service.
Joseph Candappen has married an Eastindian from Cottayam School - both
quite stout and well dressed upon 5 Rs per month as saltgodown peon! The
brethren not on good terms with Schlunk (also at Tell not much communion)
they say that Schl likes to put himself forward. Hanhart is liked very much
by all the people, also MÅller, but Reinh is disliked - one does not think
him converted, he has no good name neither with black nor white, some even
think him a Puseyite! With us he was most kind and polite, but I could not
help being very serious and cold. Would have liked to speak with him, but
was prevented by Haultains etc visiting. R goes to Rhenius and remains in
friendship with him while he in secret has got back from the Mission 3
young soldiers. Obr. is furious against Rh. and R. You have heard that 2
officers with some soldiers have been converted - Haultain is evidently
blessed for them. - Carr wrote twice from Madras, much grieved to meet his
Regt without Gomp. He seems to be very nice and sends you all much love.
Hanhardt war auf dem Payawur Fest und die Leute seyen aufmerksamer als je
gewesen <they miss Hebich because they had something to laugh and make fun
of, when he came!> "Wunderbar erschien es mir doch, sagt Marie, da· ich ge-
rade am 24 Febr dorthin kommen mu·te, an dem gleichen Tag wie vor 2 Jahren
- Ich kann nur sagen da· ich den lieben Hebich vermi·te Ach diese 2 Jahre
wie wenig habe ich darin gelernt, wie wenig habe ich zugenommen an Glauben
und Liebe. Doch kann ich ihm zum Preis auch fÅr Siege danken, die Er in mir
geschaffen. Wenigstens hat er ein Band zerrissen das mich fesselte etc

So Gott will, segeln sie Ende Maerz im Excelsior <Sterncabin fÅr 1400 Rs>,
der T. Stanes' Kaffee mitnehmen soll. Im Palgh Missionshaus ist jemand
shocked da· Du Wein trinkest! Harriet Hodges sei grÅndlich bekehrt (bes
durch Mr Davies) die Hodges in Cann froh durch mich von Dir zu hîren. - Die
jungen Brown (von uns getauft) kommen oft zu Marie - eine, Mathilde,
scheint sich zum HErrn zu wenden

Nun lebe wohl - Der HErr sei mit Dir und gebe Dir viele Freude in Seinem
Werke
.fo -
                 Dein HG



611Herrn Doctor Gundert

Lieber Herr Doktor!
.an 2
----------
1. UrsprÅnglicher Brief, auf den Hermann Gundert obigen Brief schrieb.

.fo +
Frau Rosine Burkhart hat uns auf morgen Abend 5 Uhr zugesagt, und so dÅrfen
wir also hoffen Sie zur gleichen Stunde bey uns zu sehen; in dieser freund-
lichen Aussicht grÅ·t Sie herzlich - ohne Gru· von meinem Mann dessen RÅck-
kehr von seinem Spatziergang ich nimmer abwarten kann -
.fo -
                                   Ihre
                                       Emma Ge·.
B. 3 April 60.
.ns
.dr HG110460.2
