.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Herrn Dr Gundert, Calw

                                                    Stutgard 7th Octo <60>*
Dear Papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 7th Octo <60>*
Yesterday evening we heard that on monday no Omnibus goes to Calw so we
have to wait till Tuesday. I have recieved your last and will deliver the
money as directed. Friday I went to Reutligen found dear Pauline in her
bed, so much changed that I would not have known her. We had a good time
together, she has not much desire to go to Trudel, knows that God can make
her well if it is right. She was full of joy that we could meet together
Afternoon she got up a little, had still to get up three times at night but
besides slept well as she does usually even in daytime, her Paul was with
her rather aimiable the first day, less the second because I had unfortu-
natly touched his spoon with my mouth Yesterday at nine morning came back,
found no difficulties on the road. Frederic was waiting for me in the Cas-
se. They the 3 boys are so pleased of Stutgard that they rejoiced heartily
when they heard we could not go on Monday, As Ernst spoke of an other way
of going on Monday, they were indignate and cried 2no1 rather instead of Tus-
day wait till Saturday when the Omnibus goes too, Saw Mrs. Muller who has
returned from Winenden; but will go back once more next week. We are to eat
Curry with her to day. Dring Coffee with tante Fige, Sup with Miss Second-
dorf. Dear Mama has much to do with her poor Gustave. With the Pretorius I
heard much praises of dear Samuel, who also formerly liked to eat good
things like our Paul, though Samuel was more modest. When asked how many
sausegess he would require to satisfy him he said six while our Paul who
did not know of Samuel unswered me I want fivty 50!

Now I will say Good bye Love to dear Marie I rejoice to hear she has pu-
pils; may she have grace for them. Salam to Marie Laurer, people say we are
to fortunate to have her, every where complaints against servants!

.fo -
                               Yours afftly
                                       J. Gundert
.ns
611Lieber Hermann!
.an 3
----------
1. Ab hier von Emma Reiniger.
2. Ab hier von Friedrich Gundert.

.fo +
Du hast mir versprochen Hermann wegen Stattuten von der MÑgdeanstalt zu
schicken wenns noch nicht geschehen, so bitte ich es eilig zu machen, da
wirs so gerne diese kommende Woche schon hÑtten. Wir hatten gestern eine
Sitzung, wo Deine Anfragen* wegen kleinem Anfang durchgiengen mir ist es
ganz leicht dabei, denn ich habe an einem so gro·en Beginnen sehr schwer
hinaufgesehen, wen es der Herr segnet so ist es fÅr uns viel leichter wenn
sich die Sache nach und nach erweitert. Frau Reihlen wÅnscht sehr Deine
liebe Frau kînnen zu lernen, und hofft sie wenigstens heute aus der Kirche
zu sprechen. GrÅsse die liebe Marie herzlich, wie Du gegrÅ·t bist, von Dei-
ner
.fo -
               T. Emma.

Die Kinder hatten schon zwei Abend die Freude Feuerwerk in Breunings Garten
los zu lassen, mit gro·er 2Vorsicht1 und 2Furcht1.



621Lieber Papa

.fo +
Die Mama kam glÅcklich hier an: ich habe sie auf der Eisenbahn abgeholt.
Gestern Abend sind wir sehr spÑt ins Bett de·wegen sind wir heute erst um
acht Uhr morgen aufgestanden. GrÅ· die Marie von mir. Es grÅ·t Dich
.fo -
                                 Dein Sohn
                                     Friedrich Gundert
.ns
.dr HG111060
