.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                         Calw 8th July 1860
My dear Marie.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 8th July 1860
Many thanks for yours of the 5th By this time you have perhaps heard from
papa or from your brothers. I send you here their letters, which you shall
kindly bring me back when you come with Hermann. Dear Mama and tante will
be glad to hear that it goes better with Herman.

I have seen Miss J„lin with her future mother in law, they were with the
W”hrles. I like her well.

Give please my thanks to dear Mama and tante for all they have sent, mus-
tard welcome to papa I am sure, the Bell too, 2Our1 cherries stones have been
kept faithfully. Let Mama kindly buy more of the "tafta* cir‚" as she has
sent for my hands I used it last night and I fancy it was better with my
joints. It is still very cold and unpleasant weather here; to day only we
see the sun and rejoiece enjoying its heat.

Frederic is not quite well, the children alltogether are much better than I
had expected I gave the stick twice to David since that they have been very
quiet during papas absence. Today the younger ones go with tante to Deinach
which is of course a feast, their English lessons they do not like much
however they must daily. With dear Emma I learn German at least I try, but
she goes quicker in English than I do in German, I have not heard as yet
when my brother with family comme nor whether Marie Monnard comes at all.

Marie Lohrer had told me her marriage story before you wrote but some what
differently. poor girl wishes greatly to get a husband! She is doing her
work very well. Now dear Marie Adieu may your stay at Stutgart profit you
in every way

Love 2special1 to 2dear Mama tante1, and to all the relations and friends

.fo -
                              Yours affectly
                                       J. Gundert
.ns
.dr HG120760
