.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                             Calw 10 Aug 60

My dear Emma

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 10 Aug 60
As I fear dear Julia will not correct your letter, I take the liberty to
make a few suggestions (and take a few exceptions) as regards yours of the
3d. Julia can not "set" again to learn, but must "sit", and takes occasion-
ally the liberty to 2set1 Marie over against her in order to learn from her.
I do not think you are "quit alone", but quite alone: tho' also this is not
quite true; in order to be quit, which means acquitted, you require always
somebody else to be with you and for you. You better 2give1 no trouble to any
one, 2making1 trouble is a poor business. What is the matter with aunt Emma
and "2their1 eyes" - are more than 2 eyes concerned in the matter? Then of
course they belong to more than one person. 2Her1 eyes are, I hope, improv-
ing. Don't exercise yourself 2to play1 but rather in playing. One does not
tell 2to Paule1, but we shall tell any one anything you like. What do you
"2set1 together and work"? You may together 2set about it1, when you want to
accomplish something: and then it is always pleasant to sit together for
that purpose. - Mezger has been here to see us, he goes to Palghaut or
Dharwar, Schauffler the man for Calicut has also been here I like them
both. Mezger had also some fit words for dear H. who in his presence said,
that he does not like in the N.T. that word "dying to oneself" and that no
body ever really 2died1 to himself. H, you know prefers smoother words and
po‰tical expressions to such matter of fact speeches. As for us we are sor-
ry and ashamed that we do not give him the impression as if we tried to die
to ourselves, deny ourselves, and crucify the old man, but though we should
not do it, there was considerable arrogance in maintaining that nobody ever
did. And for this Mezger, I hear, rebuked him strongly. I was not present
then, H is always more pious in my presence than with younger people.

We are still kept from walking much, it is so wet and dirty. My friend
Capt. Taylor has written from Engld and will undertake writing Dear Gom-
pertz's memoir. When you see dear Jette, please invite her also to come and
stay with us a little while; best together with her Mamma, if they can man-
age it. The boys leave us next week. So it will be a comfort to have some
company instead of them. Love to Mama
.fo -
                                      Your H.
.ns
.dr HG130860
