.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                     Stutgard Sept 29. 1860

My beloved Tantele

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: Sept 29. 1860
In your own house I have the joy to write you these few lines; to express
you my best wishes for your birthday. Yea rich blessings our dear Lord's
presence continually, the Chief and the first in all your earthly joys.

We miss you here sadly, your picture lately made though very ressembling
and very nice does not fill up the void, in the contrary When I look at it
my heart runs after you and would fain to embrace that dearest and precious
Tantele.

We were greatly rejoiced to have news from yourself and about the dear Cir-
cle you are a member at present, though we trust you will not forsake us
too long. Your beloved Mama as ever is full of tenderness and greatest af-
fection. I almost wander you can live away from her at least that you could
stay so long with us in Calw. My dear husband has felt deeply your absance,
and has been longing and sighing for news from Barmen.

The news about our dear boys Mama gives you I trust* or rather I am sure;
Marie is going on nicely. papa probably comes here on the 3d for a confer-
ence of Ministers. We shall leave this happy home D.V. towards the end of
next week or in the beginning of the following. Dear Ette is kind enough to
give me daily one hour of German: Remember me most kindly to our dear
brother and sister with kisses to the dear little ones.

As Frederic wishes to write too I leave him room and with most kind wishes
remain my precious Emma
.fo -
                              yours affectly
                                      J. Gundert
.ns
611Liebes Tantele
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Friedrich Gundert.

.fo +
Ich will Dir auch einen kleinen Brief schreiben weil Dein Geburtstag bald
ist will ich Dir gratulieren zu Deinem neuen Jahre. Bist Du glÅcklich in
Barmen angekommen und bist Du jetzt auch gesund? Da· wir jetzt in Stuttgart
sind wirst Du vielleicht wissen. Wir sind den Mittwoch nach Maichingen und
am Donnerstag noch nach Stuttgart. Es grÅ·t Dich Dein Dich liebender Neffe
.fo -
                            Friedrich Gundert.
.ns
.dr HG300960
