.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                  611Stutgard 30th Sept <60>*
Dear Papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 30th Sept <60>*
Good morning. The boys have just gone with Gustave to Canstat, afternoon we
shall D.V. hear Herr Repident Dr Gundert who is to preach, the offer did
not quite please him however he will do it and I am glad to have the oppor-
tunity to hear him once! Yette cannot go with me to Reitligen, she has les-
sons to give, Mina Kern whom I saw last night can also not go, for she is
going to Corndhal for some weeks.

Do 2not1 bring Paul's boots his shoes will do quite well I have already so
viel zu tragen that it is better to leave them there.

I have not seen many people as yet These feast days are filled up, Twice we
have been in Breining's garden and ...t plenty fruit,

I am going to hear Mr Gasper's preaching I wish you a good Sunday and to
dear Marie. Mrs. Chevalier gave birth yesterday to her 13th child.

Mr and Mrs. Josenhans have just paid a visit after church. They know noth-
ing of Hebich's mouvements.

Now Aieu with love to dear Marie



.fo -
.an 3
----------
1. Brief von Julie Gundert.
2. Ab hier von Friedrich Gundert.
.fo +
621Lieber Papa.

Ich danke Dir fÅr den lieben Brief den Du mir geschrieben hast und den ich
gestern bekam. Wir sind um 6 Uhr Abends in Maichingen angekommen. Ich wei·
nicht was unsere Kamaraden fÅr eine Freude haben. Wei·t Du nicht wenn unse-
re Buben Vakanz haben? Wegen mir brauchst Du bis jetzt noch keinen Stock.
Ich freue mich bis Du kommst. Heute waren wir auch in Cannstadt und sind im
Kursaal gewesen wo ganz viele Maschinen gewesen sind. Es grÅ·t Dich
.fo -
                                 Dein Sohn
                                      Friedrich Gundert.



611Lieber Sohn!

Nur freundlich grÅ·en will ich Dich und Dir auch freundlich danken fÅr die
lieben Geburtstagszeillen die ich von Dir erhielt, wir freuen uns Alle auf
Dein Kommen, wenn Du nur am Montag kÑmst an Deiner lieben Julie Geburtsfest
das wÑre lieb von Dir. Frdl GrÅ·e an die liebe Marie ich werde ihr bald
schreiben. In herzlicher Liebe grÅ·t Dich Deine Mutter
.fo -
                                                   E Gundert

Viele GrÅ·e von der Tante und von Paul und David.
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Emilie Gundert.
.ns
.dr HG011060
