.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
<Masters Frederick & Paul Gundert>611
.an 3
----------
1. In < > von Hermann Gunderts Hand.
2. Brief von Julie Gundert, von anderer Hand geschrieben.

                                                               <9 Dec. 55>611
621My very dear boys

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <9 Dec. 55>
In my last letter I told you that we were longing to see the Owen Glendo-
ver, which was to bring your portraits.

On the third of this month she arrived, on the 4th papa and myself and Da-
vid with Mr Irion who had come from Tellicherry, we all were opening the
boxes in great haste and anxiously seeking for your <Daguerrotypes>611 and
what do you think, after having opened all the boxes nothing was to be
found; then only we perceived that the very box in which they were had by
mistake remained in the ship, which had already left for Bombay, so we have
now to wait some weeks longer. - This morning I had great joy to receive
letters from you and to see how nicely you write English; but I am special-
ly glad to hear from your Aunt that you are good and obedient children, and
that you like to pray, we also daily pray for you to the dear Lord Jesus,
that He may give you new hearts and a living faith to His holy word, tell
us also in your letters what you hear in the preachings and in the instruc-
tions which are kindly given you. The dear Lord Jesus has been so very good
to you, dear sons, in giving you such kind and affectionate Aunt and so
many people who love you and care for you, I hope you are thankful to God
who has given them to you <and grateful>611 to them. David who is now sitting
by my side asks to whom I am writing, he sends you plenty kisses and sa-
laams. To day we had a holyday. Miss Will, Miss Kegler David 40 girls and
myself have spent the day at Cannanore to look at the fine things which Mr
Richter has brought out. Major and Mrs Young, Mrs West and her daughters
were there too, we were all very much amused with the Electric Telegraph
invention, with the steam carriage, a steam mill, and with the Photographic
machine to take the likenesses; but we were much dissappointed to find that
dear Mr Richter was not able to take our likenesses to be sent to you as
you desire it, because there is something wrong in the machine; but we hope
by and by it will be put aright so as to be of use in this country -

Mr Hebich is at present at Palghaut so papa is going to preach in his stead
to Cannanore, Asnath has married and has gone to Tellicherry, and there are
at present at school 68 children and 12 women, all those of them who knew
you ask often after you and send you plenty salaams, and especially Jacob
and Rahel, Nathanael, and some of the girls, Ruth, Dorcas, Phebe, Charlot-
te, etc.

Now my sweet boys I must say adieu. Wishing you a very good Christmas, even
the best of all that is Christ in your hearts, with a tender kiss
.fo -
                         your affectionate Mother
                                         Julie Gundert611


.an 3
----------
1. EigenhÑndige Unterschrift.
2. Ab hier AnfÅgungen von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +
621In dieser Woche erhielten wir 2 Briefe von euch, einen im SchÑchtelein an
David, und einen durch die Post. David dankt schîn. Ich will ihn unter-
schreiben lassen. Er liest Åbrigens besser als er schreibt. Jetzt habt ihr
lange Abende und pa·t aufs Christkindle. Ich wei· auch noch wie einem da zu
Muthe ist und wÅnsche euch viel Geduld und eine frîhliche Bescheerung,
nachher aber besonders einen recht langen Dank, der ins Neue Jahr wÑhret.
Ich bin Herrn Richter zum Versuch hingesessen, es hat aber kein Bild auf
die Platte kommen wollen. Jetzt wollen wir eben warten und sehen wenn es
recht wird. Im nÑchsten Jahr dÅrft ihr vielleicht nach Stuttg. Fragt dann
die liebe Mama (d.h. eure Gro·mama) ob sie euch nicht ein kleines Daguerro-
typ von uns geben kînne, das von einem Daguerrotyp abgemacht ist. Sie hat
ausserdem noch ein grî·eres, das wir von Lyon schickten. Nun der HErr segne
euch und Euren
.fo -
                                   Vater
9 Dec 1855

Unsere Elisabeth Mimi soll bald Frau Diez werden. Heute fragte mich David
auf dem Spaziergang: How far is heaven and earth! Wi·t ihrs?


.an 2
----------
1. Gru· von David Gunderts Hand, in < > von Hermann Gundert.
611I thank you <for box and picture> David
.ns
.dr HG181255
