.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev S. Hebich, Ottacamund

                                                         Cann. 29th June 55
<(englisch da· ers auch Groves zeige - wegen des Kindes seiner Tochter
Ellen)>*

My dear brother <Hebich>*

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 29th June 55
I herewith send the counterpart of the bond you sent me and confess that I
did not bring it together without some doubts and questions within myself.
We speak of a child - suppose, there are children, what then? I also in-
tended to add something like this "I am willing to increase the sum return-
ed in case of the child dying early according to the circumstances of the
case, on the understanding that the valuation of the expenses incurred dur-
ing the longer or shorter life of the Child be left entirely to my discre-
tion" - but after all I feared to make more words than are wanted. It is a
transaction of trust - I hope the lawyers will never get hold of it - but
if I write anything of the kind, I appear to pledge also my heirs or the
Mission brethren that may be my executors - and I think it better not to
increase the number of such bonds and ties - But you will tell dear Mr
Groves that such is mine and my wife's intention. The latter urged me to
put it into the bond - but after some wavering I finished it as you have it
- with few words. May God give his blessing to our poor intentions and
bring glory to Himself out of all these humiliating occurrences. With our
united love to yourself the dear Groves' and all other friends with you
.fo -
                           Yours affly in Christ
                                          H Gundert
.ns
611Lieber Heb.
.an 2
----------
1. Mitteilung auf einem beiliegenden Zettel.

.fo +
Ich schreibe Dir englisch, Du kannst wenn Du willst den Brief an J.G. abge-
ben, ich habe nichts dagegen, aber Y<oung>* warnte mich, nicht zuviel in
mein Versprechenpapier zu setzen und ich halte es so fÅr recht. Y. hat
einen cold - der Brig. hat von einem mîglichen Bruch zw. Preussen und Engld
gehîrt und spricht schon davon these Missionaries wegzuschicken, er will
keine Spionen haben. Er benimmt sich ziemlich gemein und dumm. Russld hat
in der relig das rechte System wie er meint, nur 2ein1 Glaube (er wei· nicht
da· in Russld auch Protesttn gelitten sind). Jgfr G.<roves>* ist eben sehr
shallow und confus, will aber glauben beten und brav seyn - alles miteinan-
der. Sie kennt sich selbst noch nicht recht, gibt aber ordentliche Hoff-
nung.



.fo -
.an 2
2. Entwurf einer ErklÑrung auf weiterem beiliegendem Zettel.
3. [ ] im Entwurf.
.fo +
621I the undersigned H Gundert, Missionary, residing at Chiracal near Canna-
nore do hereby promise, to maintain and educate to the best of my ability
the child, for which Mr John Groves at Ottacamund will pay the sum of fif-
teen hundred Rupees, - and to cover all its expenses with the interests of
the said sum - Should it please God that the Child should die before its
fifteenth year is completed I promise to return to Mr Groves or his heirs
the sum of one thousand Rupees within one year from the Child's demise [and
I am willing to increase this sum according to the circumstances of the
case on the understanding that the valuation of the expenses incurred dur-
ing the longer or shorter life of the Child be left entirely to my discre-
tion]631 <ohne diesen Zusatz>

Signed in the presence of

Cannanore 28th June 1855
.ns
.dr HG300655
