.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev H. Gundert, Kotirghery, paid

<42>*                                              Chiracal 6th <Juli 51.>*
                                                                  <Sunday>*
Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 6th <Juli 51.>*
Missi will write a part of this instead of me, because I must do it with
the light and I cannot do it will because of mine eyes611 which are weak. I
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von anderer Hand - auf Diktat?
.fo +
expected to have a letter from you to day; but nothing; though it is the
fourth day, Saturday morning our little Julia was buried, and to day in re-
turning from Cannanore we have all gone on the burial ground to depose the
corpse of our little Raisely <R”sle>*, she spoke untill the end, she an-
swered that she desired to go to the Lord, Gnanamuttu's wife spent the
whole night with her as she was rather restless untill this morning early
when she died. Dorcas is somewhat better, other sick people very much the
same, the small pox is among the boys at Tah‚. Samuel Susana's brother, Jo-
nathan son of Nathanael and another one, Mr Hebich is now decided to give
up Tah‚, he has shown us the plan how he will build in his house, the lit-
tle room where we usually go will be taken away and the ground of the gar-
den untill the wall where the water runs will be raised till the level of
the verandah so that piece of the ground together with our little room will
become two large rooms, with a large verandah it will cost 860 Rup. Hebich
told us to day before Capt Young that he was going to ask <leave to> the
Comitee leave to build, they laughed heartily when I asked whether he would
wait for their answer before he begins building. The Begbies are not yet
decided about leaving because of the weather which is rather pluvieux. I
gave them the Karalulpathi* and proverbs Mango pickles will be sent when
Mrs Fitzgerald goes up, she has been very poorly of late, it seems her com-
plaint is want of emulation* <circulation> in the blood provoked by some-
what wrong in the heart, when she has slept some hours, she awakes quite
cold and as suffocated then much rubbing and moving makes her again lively,
as change does her usually good she came with us this evening, and will try
fore some days how it will be, therefore I had no time to write to you as
long as it was day, and tomorrow morning it may be I shall find very little
too, I heard today of the death of your old General Gibson who will have
died the very day you wrote that he appeared to be a little better, next
Sunday we shall have the Lords supper, D.V.

I have been very sorry to hear today that Hebich had not yet written to
you. He has began the report but does not know when he shall have time to
finish it, He was just sending to Moegling to a letter he had received from
Greiner regarding all their transaction. 611Hebich pense que Moegling a plu-
sieurs torts Il dit que Gren* est trŠs sobre dans ses jujements et entout.
ils sont mieux qu'ils n'‚taient, toutes fois il ni aura pas un reel mieux
jusquace que chacun d'eux ait la grace de reconnaitre ses torts et les con-
fesse. Mme Fitz a eu une nuit passable beaucoup mieux qu'… Cann. I hope to
get a letter tomorrow to day is the 5th without. Adieu we are all well love
to all
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier wieder von Julie Gunderts Hand.
                          Yours afftly J. Gundert
.ns
.dr HG070751
