.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, pd

3.                                                        Kaity, 9 March 51
                                                                  <Sunday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 9 March 51
I am not as yet in a writing mood, for my hands are sunburnt and the fin-
gers stiff, but you will be anxious to hear, so I write without delay. My
2d was closed on the 7th rather abruptly, because Mîr. said the last term
for the homepost was on the very next morning early, so I closed the letter
for Josenhans (with your inclosure for Hermann etc - also a fine letter
from Mîgling which you may tell H.) and Mîr and Mîgl rode quickly to Ava-
lanche Bang from whence they dispatched the very same evening a servant to
Ottei. With the same occasion I sent your letter. I followed slowly in the
face of a strong Eastwind - which burnt my hands, though the body remained
cool in spite of much walking. I made all the descents on foot you know the
last descent is about 3 miles long. At 1/2 past four arrived at Aval and
when Fred. came after me plenty of good milk was to be had (but also at Si-
spara Capt Ouchlerlony's wife left us some) so he was very happy. Next
morning (8th) the 2 M's rode before to Ottei, I followed till the Tappal-
house slowly, and there lay a little in the shadow of Fred's bed about noon
and gave him cheese and bread (the Asisi was very welcome) then went
quicker thro' fair lawns (opposite to Mrs Groves house) to Kaity, arrived
there rather warm from having walked down the last piece of descent, Metz
came to meet me having descried me coming down. It was 2 1/2 hours, near
dinner. I found that your question had troubled Mrs I.<rion>* a little -
she mentioned it at once to the Buhlers, as if you wished us to be here,
Fred to stay with her, and B's were annoyed not to be asked directly and
gave her no answer. Hence she could give none to you. I then explained to
B. that Mrs I. had only been asked previously as to what she would think
better suited for us Cotirg. or Kaity etc. the explanation was well re-
ceived and the room offered if I would be content with one. So I was of
course and am now fairly settled in the guests' room. The Eastwind dis-
solved itself into rain (the first after 3 months - I wished you might have
had it) not however before Fred. also arrived - boisterously welcomed by
Mrs I's boys and glad to see them. I found that Nanni had dressed him anew
on the road for the meeting. He was then very happy, and would even walk
during the first drops of rain to see the garden etc. After nightfall Mî
and Mî arrived too wet, but the letters they brought were very welcome. Al-
ready before hand I had got one from you: they brought Heb's. Plenty thanks
for all news, for all love, for all care too, though unnecessary. It will
have been a short distress for Vau. Happily children are so easily led away
from a painful subject and a deep sleep makes an end even to strong commo-
tions of their minds. I wish that you be also a child in this respect and
learn to turn with some decision from a painful subject to that which sup-
plies you with matter for thanksgiving. And I suppose you find on reflec-
tion every day, even in times of affliction that we have more reason for
being thankful and glad, than for dropping our heads. Don't care about cli-
mates. It is quite nice here nearly 1000 feet lower than Ottac. and no wind
- but if it should after a fair trial appear better to change, I shall go
to Kotirg. Only nothing in a hurry. We are very well here: Nath has nothing
to do but to look after Fred. both sleep in my room. Fr. is quite accus-
tomed already and has appetite. I feel very easy, but continue of course to
whisper instead of talking. - Today Sunday there was service, I not pre-
sent, because I did not know the time. Sanderson was here and dined with us
- a truly nice person. Mîgl will have to take a cottage with him at Ootac.
because Rice has done so and will have no meetings at Kaity. After dinner a
kind of catechetical instruction by Mîr. I was present, saw also Satyana-
den, whose wife with Gnanam had paid me a visit already in the morning. S.
seems sleepy, but I could not speak much with him, because we then went al-
together on a walk round the compound. Mrs I. walks well and ought to be an
example to you! - You will give Vau kisses from both of us. Fred is much
pleased with the details which I tell him out of your letter give also our
love to Miss K who will be glad to hear that Fr. has come to the end of his
travels on the whole with so little trouble. I hope Mrs Irion tells you
more details of Fred. whom she has taken under her protection. He is really
modest in his demands. Only towards coming his heart grows tender. I told
you that in Wandur he was really homesick but no more since that. Nath. be-
haves pretty well, that is to say: the first days are not as yet over and
he finds it less easy to enter into new ways than to continue in the old
custom. He has become very dear to Fred. I's children are most happy, Chr
looks quite fresh and strong Fr eats also the crust of bread and tittippu
(of ours from Chiracal) and the liver of fowls ("this good piece") - he
feels never cold in his clothing - because he moves about more than down -
Now love to you and all I hope soon to write to H.
.fo -
                                 Yours HG.

611Il (le petit) n'a 2jamais1 demandÇ que pour toi! pas d'autre nom

621Laufend GrÅ·e von H. M.
.an 3
----------
1. Von Hermann Gundert im Mittelfalz dazwischengeschrieben.
2. Randanmerkung, wohl von Herrmann Mîgling.
.ns
.dr HG100351
