.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
4.                                                              12 March 51
                                                               <Wednesday>*

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 12 March 51
Here follows the letter of dear Marie. This and Pauline's letter is alone
for you - The rest for Hebich, who perhaps is still in Talip. when this ar-
rives. I have only received one letter from you, perhaps the boy who takes
this to Oot. brings me something back. Osts letter contains all his bitter
feelings about our parents not writing to him, and spoiling Marie through
visites etc. You better leave it unread. Fred. is very well, sings much,
eats much and begins to walk more. Today Mrs Ir. talked to him of going
back together to Mama and Miss K, when he broke out in tears and was for
some time inconsolable, wanting to return immediately. I of course do never
speak to him in this manner. I feel equal to walk a good deal, but am often
constipated. They tell me that's an effect of the hillclimate. M<ogli>* has
taken a house in Oot with Sand. and is there since Monday. Other news there
are none. Now may God be with you all and keep and comfort you!
.fo -
                                 Yours HG.


                                                611Gundeling. 26ten Dez <50>*
.an 2
----------
1. Brief von Marie Gundert, auf den Hermann Gundert obigen Brief schrieb.

Lieber Vater!
.fo +

Vielen Dank, da· Du mir erlaubt hast, zu meinen Gro·eltern zu gehen. Ich
will Dir erzÑhlen, wie es mir ging. In Stuttgart war ich sehr vergnÅgt und
man machte mir einen Christtag. Da bekam ich eine Bibel und ein Vergi·mein-
nicht, Wir feierten gestern den Christtag und da bekamen wir Alle gar schî-
ne Sachen. Ich will Dir erzÑhlen, wie es zu ging. Zuerst sangen wir, dann
gingen wir in die Stube, wo viele Lichter standen und in der Mitte stand
ein Christbaum, und unter den Lichtern waren unsre Sachen ausgebreitet. Ich
bekam vom Papa Papier und von der Mama eine SchÅrze, und von der Tante Ura-
nie ein Kassettchen. Lieber Vater wir haben eine neue Lehrerin von Stutt-
gart und ich bin mit ihr gereist. Einen herzlichen Gru· an die Mutter und
an die drei BrÅderchen und an die Maria Kegel und an den Herrn Hebich. Nun
Adieu lieber Vater. Dein Dich herzlich liebendes Kind
.fo -
                                   Marie
.ns
.dr HG130351
