.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev S. Hebich, for Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

13                                                         Koterg 24 Jun 51
                                                                 <Tuesday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 24 Jun 51
I have been rather long without letter, and have therefore nothing to an-
swer. But I will try to keep the 3d day as long as there is no positive
inability to write. - From Saturday 21 till Monday 23d Mîrike was with us
on visit. He reports of Mrs Irion that it was the Dr's visit and intimation
of her getting perhaps a troublesome complaint, that therefore she was to
rest much and ought only to write to her husbd to avoid being too much bent
forward, what made her really ill, because it dejected her so much. She is
now troubled more with these thoughts than there is reason for being: and
he it seems it also much cast down. Buhrer611 has done with the Committee and
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Kînnte auch "Buhler" gelesen werden.
.fo +
will come today for a visit, after which he will see Mîr's place in the To-
danad (where he now is) and return with him to Kaety. Buhl and Rice did not
get on well together. Sanderson is said to have Mîgl's complaints and
thinks of going home. In that case he is not likely to help himself in a
hurry to a wife hereabouts. Mr Foulkes passed a miserable examination be-
fore his ordination. He did not even know the word ____________________.
Beuttler on the contrary seems to get on well with learning the language.
He related something of Cottayam, where they have also 2 shooting brethren,
fonder of the jungle than of the congregation. Perhaps Beuttler comes up
again for a few weeks with his wife, in which case I may see him also. - Of
the Groves' and Hodges' Mîr had to say very little that pleases or re-
joices. I am glad I sold your laces here for 23 Rup and something beyond.
Mrs Hodges' father died some months ago. The news came just to detain her
from a picknick. - Arth Lasc is now decided to go home and become Padre in
Sept. He will tell the Bishop who is to ordain him, that he must address
him a little differently from the prescribed formula "Receive ye the holy
Ghost" - for he has conscientious scruples about this and the Baptismal
service. Cockburn related to me yesterday the reason of their quarrel.
Lasc. the father was evidently very wrong about it, and now he has the re-
ward of being obliged to avoid his Son, whom he calls Abshalom. But Cockb.
thinks that the elder boy, who is now liked in preference by the father, is
decidedly worse than Arthur. It was quite pityful to hear it. He Cockb.
pleased me by confessing of himself how dangerous a civilian's position is
in this country, as they learn to command and have it all their own way be-
fore they can controul themselves, that he feels the injury it has done to
him to th... day etc. Lasc. evidently is still the old strongheaded self-
willed man: his wife could do nothing to check him, if even she understood
to set about it in the right way. They now talk of leaving Honore in all
haste and go to the Cape in July. But I do not think the matter is so de-
cided. - The old General fell very sick on Sunday night. I hope he may re-
cover to consider his end before it is too late. His son the Chaplain tho'
nice, seems yet much under the law. - Mîr tells me that Addis is so afraid
of the Church taking Palgh. that he will seize with both hands any prospect
of getting a less formidable neighbour. - The barracks will be decidedly
built between Cunnur and Ottacamund, and 3 Comp's of Europeans will come up
soon to help in the building. Every one is sorry of the prospect of having
soldiers up here - There is nothing to be said of myself and Freddy, we are
going on nicely. Mrs BÅhrer is I think quite strong. It does not seem that
she is expected to help at Mrs Buhl's confinement in August. Now farewell.
May the Lord assist you in all your work with the children and women! Love
to all
.fo -
                                 Yours HG
.ns
.dr HG260651
