.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

<11>*                                                     Kaity 29 March 51
                                                                <Saturday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 29 March 51
Last Thursday I think I wrote to you - then came Mr and Mrs Hodges also Mrs
Hullock for a visit, of course I also went to see them, and got every pos-
sible expression of love and regard to send to you. Amongst other things
Mrs H mentioned that J Groves is very ill and that perhaps they will sell
Fernhill if they can (the Bishop perhaps will look at it) - Jessie is ex-
pected to come out (who went home for some thing like epileptic fits) - Ma-
ry is quite a chip of the old block, that is to say fond of horses and hug-
ging dogs - the parents strictly Plymouthian, that is, never going to
Church nor hearing any body but Mr Minchin. As M”gl wrote to me that he may
perhaps sell my poney, I went part of the way to Ott. with them on their
returning. I did not find M”gl. at home, therefore went at once to see old
Schmid he had gone out with his wife, so I staid with Mrs Mitcheson who has
a fine boy of about a year. She spoke with some anxiety of her husband, who
is sick and writes only every 6th day - and she seems already to feel that
these things may be meant in mercy for her. After sunset the Dr <Schmid>*
and Lady returned from their visit. I liked the mother at once; she talked
of Tinnevelly, the Enslin's etc. After some talk he accompanied me over to
M”gl. who had returned from his boating excursion. Sanderson and Minchin
had rowed him this evening. He looked better, but had a bad letter to an-
swer before him - a Mr Hardy from Bangalore having sent all possible com-
plaints against their Canar. translation to the Madr. Bible Soc. Committee
I read the letter - and a very stupid one it is - and then wrote part of
the answer, M”glg dictating till 10 o'clock. This was a great exception for
generally he goes to bed about 7 1/2 PM and does not rise before his 12
hours are finished. So they assure me. There was also a letter from Pauli-
ne, stating that Gottfd had commenced his journey with Col Coffin to Bel-
gaum Goa etc They had also a visit from Hiller, who was some what surprised
to be invited by Weigles' to come whenever he likes to them, as he had not
permitted Mglg to come and see them, after all he also said, as for the re-
port that he is to leave the Mission (to become a cotton agent under Gov-
ernmt) they ought not to vex themselves now, for he has delayed his final
application in hope of better times. What that means, who knows! Mglg had
also a letter from home. His father had been very ill but was better when
he wrote and had begun to preach again. An aunt of his, who had been very
hopeless, was wonderfully converted, so that his parents now write, that
nothing henceforth shall appear to them hopeless. - In the morning I walked
back (left the horse for sale) - plucked some berries for Frederick who
likes them better, than something of sugar that Mglg sent. - He walks and
runs now a great deal more, his hands and cheek have also that dark colour-
ed leatherlike bursting appearance that Ir's children had when we came. His
motions are much better. - As for me though I feel better, and take long
walks morning and evening, I have nothing particular to report. I think I
grow a little more diligent in writing (translating 1 Corinth.) I wish I
could send you a houseful of the cool wind that now (after 8 o'clock) blows
over the hilly chain bounding our valley.

This morning Mrs B. has gone to Ott. for some days to pay some visits she
has been owing for a long time (Hodges Foulkes etc.) - We have had rain
yesterday I wish you the same happiness. - Next Thursday (3 Apr) Mrs Lasc.
intends to set out for Honore, so I shall try to see her once more. I sup-
pose a letter from you is waiting for me, at Ottac. but perhaps tomorrow
some body goes to the post and brings it. Now excuse my dry epistle and may
the Lord give you of his best rain - such as will cool down Temen, and make
fruitful such barren spots as Cugnicutti and the rest. May He glorify him-
self in you and all the dear Chiracal company. My love to Hebich Miss K.
Missy, Vau, David, Jacob etc
.fo -
                                Yours HGdt
.ns
.dr HG300351
