.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, care of Rev A BÅhrer, Mangalore, bearing

5.                                                          Cann. 29 Oct 51

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 29 Oct 51
Yesterday evening Isabella came with Gabr. to settle about their house I
hope this matter will be finished today and to add my best endeavours I
came in this morning. In passing by the post office I got your first let-
ter, and from Nehemiah whom I met after wards Mglg's short note of Sunday.
Give him my love and thanks for it. You err if you think M. wrote of Paul's
feverishness etc. I got this only from you. Now I am glad to hear that God
has helped you through this anxiety and hope the stay at Mang. may do good
to both of you. - It is very nice too that you do not speak of months of
absence like myself - I confess I shall be glad to see you at the end of
next week and hope you will then have got out all you want from Pauline.
Also of the portrait I am very glad. I trust you will come by Pattimar and
without much trouble. If Heb will not come so soon, try to make Dietz your
protector. You have not mentioned him as yet - Neither did you say anything
of the dear BÅhrer's and Christian especially. But I conclude from your si-
lence that they got well over the way.

It pleases me much to hear so good impressions made on you by the Insp. I
hope the Lord will make him go through all the work that lies before him
with the same Spirit - But "gagnera 2tous1 les coeurs" is saying too much.
All the welldisposed - to be sure, but if there are such as are unknown to
themselves, no doubt, still bitter against the ways of God, I believe he
must also find such as dislike him.

Now as for news I must report that David is still not well. His cold is in-
deed much better, but the dear fellow is not content with any or all of us,
but murmurs and seeks after somebody else. He is indeed fretful and I
therefore lanced his teeth yesterday, he also had again a good night, but I
really believe he is Mama sick and am therefore prepared to hear him com-
plaining for some days more. I wonder what he will say to you after your
return: I am sure he will be inseparable for 1-2 days at least. The best
amusement I found for him is the piano which he plays mightily: he also
likes to listen to the singing of the girls, with which I have made a new
beginning. - Fred. behaves now well at our morning prayers (immediately
after breakfast) they do not seem too large for him.

Isabella will return with me to Chiracal she likes to stay some days, or
even weeks, till she may see you. Missy is very nice with David: once or
twice at night he thought he had got you! The Youngs are today on a visit
at the MÅller's, and will return tomorrow. - Miss K. has had something like
a fit of repentance concerning her marriage: not being sure about his char-
acter she rather would wish to reconsider the whole again. I helped her to
it, and so we will wait some days. He has also written to me in a friendly
way - but still very convinced of his having been prepared for a great work
in Malas. that furnace of affliction. The Insp. may possibly see him at
Dharwar, for towards the end of Novemb he will be at Belgaum for his ordi-
nation.

I have this morning paid visits to West's (saw Richard's paintings and
heard the Ladies' Polkas!) and then to Dr Magrath, with whom I staid for
some time. We had nice conversation and he will also help me in that trial
with the lunar caustic as advised by Haldwell and Dr Porteous

Dr Jowett he thinks will be the best man to insert it into the throat.
That's the man who came now and then to Chapel. Now farewell! Love be with
you! and with all the dear people - Kiss to Paul - Remember me also espe-
cially to the Hochzeiters of tomorrow
.fo -
                                 Yours HG

Read the enclosed of Halliday to me
.ns
.dr HG291051.2
