.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
2<To await his arrival1, The Revd Dr Gundert, Traveller's Bungalow,
Coimbatore ->611
<No 2 Not come yet>621
.an 4
----------
1. Alte Anschrift von anderer Hand auf einem Blatt, das Hermann Gundert fÅr
___obigen Brief benutzte.
2. Von anderer Hand; wohl zum alten Brief gehîrend.

                                                          Coonoor 2 July 58
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 2 July 58
Yesterday your letter came with the news of the Hodges being at Bepoor. You
will ask her what there is about another match of Jessie's, broken off it
would appear by those rumors flying about Madras. - Did I tell you of Chi-
nnappen and Martha. They have a fine house here, and she looks better than
in former years, I mean more happy and contented. But from what reason I do
not know. She has no child now. He suffers from fever. So does Joshua her
brother who lives with them. The latter not yet married - appears quite
ignorant and careless. On the whole I felt that with all their prosperity
they were not more hearty, only Martha seemed to warm with old recollec-
tions. - Sauvain mentioned to C. MÅller that Strobel had sent a circular to
the Malabar stations in which he objects strongly to Hebich etc. I cannot
believe this, but fear Fritz may have communicated any of Str's letters to
me, though I remember none that could have pained Heb. had he seen it. But
please ask Fritz in private, what can be the cause of this report. If Heb.
hears of it, it will grieve him, as Str. still addresses him: dear father
etc. But I fear Sauv. 2liked1 to hear anything that sounded opposed to He-
bich. - Tell Fritz that Strobel is to get the Miss[ionar]y papers, Heiden-
bote etc from Kaity, as the shorter way. So they need not be sent to him
from Calicut. - I saw Mrs Hayne, widow of the Major a very fine lady and
her daughter converted too. - Scudder gives Chinnapp a very bad name (a-
dultery only 6 months ago) and pities Martha as not opening her mouth as
long as he is present. The Congregation Catechists etc in a poor way! Sa-
tyanaden employed as schoolmaster. I have now had an invitation to preach
Tamil but will probably hear the Bishop next Sunday. - In my Wednesday
meeting I have commenced the Galatians

Now farewell
.fo -
                                 Your HG.
.ns
.dr HG030758
