.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
<Revd. Dr Gundert, 2Coimbatore1. Urgent>611
.an 2
----------
1. Anschrift von anderer Hand auf ursprÅnglichem Brief, siehe unten.

                                                      Coimbatur 4 Juni 1858
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 4 Juni 1858
Yesterday I wrote the letters to Stuttg and Basle, and as none came from
you thought myself dispensed from the duty of inditing yet another epistle.
But also this evening brings none. It is perhaps the Monsoon that delays
the Post. - Well this morning in compliance with Str's request I went to
Mrs Poulson, rented the house for 15, gallopped back to write yet in time
for the morning post and figured to myself Str getting into nice quarters.
Comes a servant with a slip in Str's handwriting. "Dr Gundert at Capt. Bos-
well's" and says the Coolies have come and wait at the bungalow. I suppose
it must be the wine and arrowroot, but he said no, Master's own things and
Master himself coming - got sick - And really just when Hodges paid me a
visit - there comes a bandy and Str slowly out of it - with dysentery. I
nearly seem to have left him this encumbrance, but then he has the wet
house - 2slept1 in that Verandaroom, had no right Cook, no order in the
house, is so helpless, and Obr. fears the dresser a RCath bigot might even
hurt him - so there he is now in for it, and I can now practise what has
been tried upon me. Gave him injection and pills and arrowroot instead of
broth and am most strict, watching for the Dr to improve upon my treatment.
Certainly he was little prepared for providing for his outward necessities,
when he set out on this Mission.

Str. has brought me the bottles and tin, from the latter he is now himself
fed.

Saw the Hodges this evening. Met Harriet at the door and got soon into
talk, she is stout and good English - understands Tamil too. But you will
see her. Mrs H. related of many people. Dobbie is also up there with dysen-
try The Addis offered to do any thing for Str. Possibly we may go there
when the H have left next week, as they are on their way to Palgh Ponany
Cal. Of Grant they speak as a decided Christian, but of weak health, hardly
fit for our coast. I hear that Arb. has yesterday passed thro' this and
examined the school. I have not got a hint from the great man; who stayed
with Ward it seems. My leave is in the Gazette. With book accounts I shall
have done in future being relieved from all responsibility in this matter.
So far good.

Now plenty love to you both and all the brethren besides, and may you be
kept from all anxiety - as grace is sufficient for us and all will end well
.fo -
                                 Your HGdt



                                                     611Palghaut d 2d June 58
.an 3
----------
1. Ab hier ursprÅnglicher Brief, auf den Hermann Gundert obigen Brief
___schrieb.

.fo +
Mein lieber Br!

Ich hîre soeben von O'Brien da· Mr Bayley is about to occupy Mrs Poulson's
house. Dies kommt mir ungeschickt und scheint mir ein Wink zu seyn, das
Haus zu renten, weil es wirklich mir klar ist, da· die Chapel sich nicht so
wie sie ist gut zum Gottesdienst empfiehlt und die Schule auch das ganze
der Chapel nîthig hat, um nicht gestîrt zu seyn. - Ich bitte Dich daher un-
gesÑumt mit Mrs Poulson die houserent zu settlen, was nicht so schwer ist,
da Mr Bayley wohl 2nicht1 bis 10 Rs gehen wird.

Thue denn das Deinige - und la·' es mich umgehend wissen,
.fo -
                                                       Dein J. St.
.ns
.dr HG050658
