.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Calicut

                                                           Coimb. 7 June 58
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 7 June 58
Thanks for yours of the 5th received this evening with the enclosure for
Sister MÅller. I may send it soon as I think of writing to the boys. Next
Tuesday evening I may start for Coonoor. C MÅller writes of Hebich sending
me per post 14 pomegranates. So Strobel may yet finish part of them. He has
got over the worst of his attack and is now often sitting with me and gets
stronger. Miss W<ill>* is stupid in this one thing that she wants such pal-
pable love - and just from certain people and thereby is prevented from
seeing where love meets her halfway. But she will get no invitation to
Scotld I am pretty sure - and if she were arrived there she would soon feel
unhappy no doubt. Mrs Hodges will tell you all about their niece. Mrs Lech-
ler got her out in a strange manner, the H.<odges?>* are rather bothered
with her on their marches, yet where leave her? I think she would make a
good wife for Herre or another educational brother. Not that much of spir-
itual things can be got out of her. She has not as yet whispered on the
subject but behaves marvellously well, prays, reads and likes to hear what
is good. The H's are puzzled about her. I thought for a moment if there
might be a door for her at Cal. to stop and do something - teach Fritz's
children, help with the girls? but there are difficulties I feel and of
course uttered nothing. Mrs H. will be very happy to speak with you about
all their little trials (also money cares etc) she is indeed desirous for
real communion and he gives also good witness before natives. Altogether I
loved them very well - en passant as we do most of our things. - The Lord
bless you both together and knit your hearts into one. I shall then also
profit from it, probably not merely en passant.
.fo -

With true love in Him - and a kiss to Marie -
                                                    Your HG
.ns
.dr HG070658.2
