.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                    Calicut 10th July <58>*

My sweet Frederic

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 10th July <58>*
I am very anxious to hear how is your dear Aunt Culman who was ill the last
time you wrote, has she returned home now if so give her my sincere love
and also to your other teachers to whom you are I trust obedient and love
them, if you love you can obey is it not?

I was glad to hear you were permitted to enter a higher class. Is it not
that our dear Lord helps you to learn and makes it easy for you.

My very dear Frederic how much would I like to see you and hear all from
you; but by and by you will be able to write us long letters; I hope the
Lord has brought near you your two brothers from Stutgard.

I hope you pray to the dear Saviour. My prayer for you three dear pets is
that the Lord would give you faith, by faith you will be kept from evil and
by faith in Him who has loved you and loves you still you will be able also
to love Him, with out faith we cannot love, nor obey of course. Is it not
that when you love some body you can obey easily?

Now my precious Frederic
.fo -
            Receive a tender kiss from your Mama
                                                     J. Gundert

.fo +
Since I wrote this I hear that during Miss C. absence you have become the
last in your class Dear child how is that Did you no more pray? Or can you
only learn when dear Aunt helps you. Well next time perhaps we shall hear
that you have been diligent and good

adieu dear Frederic
.ns
.fo -
                                                                 <July 58>*

611Mein lieber Brd. Friedrich!
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Marie Gundert.

.fo +
Was ists denn, da· Du nicht recht lernst und der letzte in der Schule ge-
worden bist? So ging mirs auch zuweilen und das kam mir unverstÑndlich vor,
denn ich glaubte doch, gut und lang gelernt zu haben vorher. Aber wei·t Du,
da· man einen 2ganzen1 Kopf und ein ganzes Herz zum Lernen haben mu·? Wenn Du
anfÑngst zu lernen und denkst dabei ans Spielen od. an sonst etwas, fÅrchte
ich, da· Du nie Deine Aufgabe kînnen wirst. Du kannst Deine Gedanken aber
nicht selbst alle in ein BÅndelein zusammen Binden, damit sie nicht mehr
herumschweifen, sondern Du mu·t den lieben Heiland bitten, das zu thun,
denn Er kann es ganz gut. - Heute geht das Schiff: Windsor Castle von hier
ab nach England. Der gleiche KapitÑn, der Euch nach Haus brachte, ist dar-
auf. Auf diesem Schiffe gehen 3 liebe junge Kinder nach Hause ein Knabe und
zwei nette MÑdchen. Ihr Vater ist der Richter hier, ein gar gro·er Mann.
Aber die Kinder sehen gar nicht glÅcklich aus. Ihre rechte Mutter starb und
ihre zweite Mutter ist ziemlich streng. Sie hatten zum Beispiel gar keine
Puppen und hatten eine gro·e Freude, als unsre liebe Mama ihnen schickte.
Du siehst, sogar vornehme Kinder sind manchmal nicht lustig. Wie viel hast
Du zu danken fÅr alles was Du hast. Thu es doch und es wird Dir so wohl
seyn.

                              Mit herzl. Ku·
.fo -
                                      Deine Marie
.ns
.dr HG100758.2
