.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                              <20 Juni 58>*

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <20 Juni 58>*
Yesterday (19) rode to Kaety and back in the evening. This is a good day's
work, isn't it. - Write upon Mercuries "by bookpost" so also upon Mspts.
The Hochs are displeased with Heb's transactions in the Mang girl school,
where quite young girls were given in marriage etc Amm. writes Mang is like
sheep without shepherd. I believe it half. Old girls out of the school al-
ready were by Heb put back into it. I advised Hoch to send them back to the
parents. But the fact here is Mrs. H. does not know if she can go back to
her house, the Hauff's complaining that it is too narrow for 2 families!
Miss Will gave for 30 dozen thread 30 Rs to Pfl. But I do not know if these
are Calicut stories, as I gave to Pfl already in Dec some store of thread.
- I wish the bull was sold and gave us no farther expense! Nothing from
Carr since March

Love to dear Marie etc
.fo -
                          Your HG



                                                   611Coonoor 19th June 1858.
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Pauline Hoch.

My very dear sister Gundert,

.fo +
I have not answered your dear letter, which I had some time ago, until now,
and I think the more that it is time to do it now for two reasons sake.
First, as your dear husband is with us now, and secondly as dear Marie is a
new creature now. Your dear husband looks thin, but he seems to be well,
and quite pleased with Coonoor. He rode over to Kaity this morning and will
come back in the evening. -

With regard to dear Marie I rejoice with you, rejoice with great joy, that
the Lord has heard your prayers and given you not only your daughter, ac-
cording to the body, but that He also through His infinite grace and mercy
has been pleased to give you your daughter spiritually and that she has
been made a new creature through His own Spirit.

Our children are pretty well. Paul and Mark are quite well. Theophilus has
Diarreoa again. Mariely looks rather poorly from teething, but she is bet-
ter, than she was some time ago. My husband is much better, than he was a
month ago. I am not free from Diarrheoa, I am obliged to take medecine con-
tinually, but I am very much better.


Liebe Marie,

Da Dein lieber Vater bei uns ist, so denke ich sehr oft an Dich, und mu·
Dir daher auch ein paar Worte schreiben. Es freut mich von ganzem Herzen
da· Du, durch des lieben Heilandes Gnade nun auch ein Kind der Gnade gewor-
den bist. Es ist Etwas Gro·es und sehr Wunderbares, da· wir arme sÅndige
Menschen Kinder Gottes werden dÅrfen und sollen. Ich wÅnsche von Herzen,
meine liebe Marie, Du mîgest nun auch in Ihm wachsen, d.h. 1. Dich selbst
in Deiner Armuth und SÅnde immer besser kennen lernen, recht arme SÅnderin
werden, und 2t. immer tiefere Blicke in Deines Heilandes Gnade, Liebe,
Barmherzigkeit und Treue thun dÅrfen und vollen Frieden und Freude in Ihm
haben. Ich freue mich, Dich, so der Herr will, im Herbst begrÅ·en zu dÅr-
fen.

In alter treuer Liebe
.fo -
                            Deine Pauline Hoch.
.ns
.dr HG200658.2
