.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Just now received your letter, best thanks611
.an 4
----------
1. AnfÅgung von Hermann Gundert.
2. Ab hier von Marie Gundert ("Calicut"von anderer Hand gestrichen und
___"Cannanore" - richtig - korrigiert).
                                   621Calicut <Cannanore>* d. 25 Februar 1858
Ma träs chäre Maman!

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 25 Februar 1858
Pas encore une petite lettre de ta part nous a rÇjouit, mais comme je sais
que tu es toujours tant occupÇe, j'espäre que c'est seulement le manque de
temps, qui ne te permet pas d'Çcrire et que tu te portes pourtant bien. Ce
matin nous sommes justement arrivÇs ici de Cananore, oó j'Çtais träs heu-
reuse. J'aime Monsieur Hebich tant qu'il me semble, je ne pourrais pas
l'aimer de plus. Il a beaucoup parlÇ avec moi, d'une maniäre qui m'a fait
plus d'impression que je n'ai jamais senti. J'espäre que j'en aurai une
bÇnÇdiction, qui ne se perd pas si vite. Mais j'en parlerai avec toi, lors-
que nous serons de nouveau chez vous Ö Calicut. Notre voyage alla bien jus-
qu'ici, Dieu soit bÇni.

Je me sens un peu fatiguÇe aujourd'hui, parceque je ne pouvais pas beaucoup
dormir la nuit passÇe. Nous avons visiter Me Muller Ö Cannanore, elle se
porte bien et te fait bien saluer. Ses enfants sont aussi en bonne santÇ.

M. et Me Irion te saluent aussi. J'ai du plaisir Ö porter un peu la petite
Sarah, elle est si jolie et si aimable.

Comme Papa veut encore Çcrire Ö ma lettre je finis maintenant en saluant
aussi M. Fritz et ses petites filles. Porte-toi bien et reáois un tendre
baisers de ta fille bien affectionnÇe
.fo -
                                   Marie Gundert.



.fo +
631Heb. has been very kind to Mary and gave her a good deal of time. We lived
.an 1
3. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert.
in his house, slept in the place where the Diez's once were, and where now
the Engl school fills most of the rooms. Visited Mrs M<Åller>* in the aft-
ernoon had not to go to Mrs Lehm as she spent the day at Cheracal Did not
go to Chir. but I heard that Nath has been so much surprized by Elieser's
fall, that he confessed having sinned with Annie about one year ago. Such
misery everywhere abroad truly we must sigh for a new life through all the
congregations. Also at Mang (or Moolky) they had a sad story. Naomi had
lived with Thomas, was with child. As he intended to marry another she took
some medicine or poison, lost much blood and died. It made a great impres-
sion on the Mang. Congregation, as Heb improved the occurrence consider-
ably. With Thomas the Assist. Collector he had but little: Th. acknowledges
that he is not the Lord's. Heb has more confidence in Hauff than in Finkh.
It seems that Kaund. is very desirous to have again the Cat. Institution.
As for the bull I will write to Pfl to send it to Merc. at least for 1-2
months. If it is to be sold it can be done for truly it seems hardly worth
while keeping it for the few cows we have.

We shall D.V. meet on Sunday morning. My impression of the Cann visit is
very hopeful. It is really a pleasure to see that Heb. and Strobel are gro-
wing in Confidence as the aspects of things (chiefly the supplies for the
year) become threatening. The Lord give them all they really want
.fo -
                                                      Yours in the Lord HG
.ns
.dr HG260258
