.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Calicut
<2stamped1 Dr H Gundert, Inspector fo schools, Coonoor>611
.an 2
----------
1. Anschrift eines alten Briefes, von anderer Hand.

                                                         Coonoor 27 July 58
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 27 July 58
It is true Stanes makes photographs and has also promised to take my like-
ness, but now with his hand he will be unable to do anything in that line
for about a month. If the time will allow I shall sit to him before coming
down. - Mrs Francis I hear is kept at home by the sickness of a child and
the visit of Mr Philipps who is said to be very churchy. - The news about
Schaffhausen are from Ammann, no details, because he is not in the habit of
giving lengthy descriptions in his letters. - So you had the Communion the
same day I enjoyed it in the Tamil Congregation Apropos did you know Floyd
the 74th Highlander? He saw you at Cal. on his way from Maliap. I think He
died Sunday 11 July 7 PM. In the morning he had taken a brother's hand and
said: before the evening closes I shall be with my Lord which is far better
- and it was done to him according to his words. He was a very firm follow-
er of our Lord and gave witness of his faith on all sides. - Saw yesterday
Mrs Baylis of Neyyoor who it seems could not learn Tamil but has a nice
mind. They have also their troubles, Mr Mead gave over his Mission just in
time as it had become very worldly. Their numbers have since decreased but
in reality there has been inward growth. Today saw Mrs Coffin; she heard
from the General that at Hyderabad some fear about the Moharum. Himself
fears nothing. - Tomorrow I shall D.V. go to Ooty, where the weather is re-
ported (by J Gr) to be very fine now. Perhaps you also have now sunny days.
The Lord keep you both in body and soul. Love to the brethren
.fo -
                                                            Your HG.
.ns
.dr HG270758.2
