.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Dr H. Gundert, Care of Dr. Leslie, 2Cochin.1

                                                    Calicut 28th March 1858

Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 28th March 1858
Your welcome letter came just in hand for which many thanks. Truly I did
not expect to hear so soon, for I had heard that a letter was three days in
the way from Cochin; that has kept me from writing Saturday and even today:
for now I am too late for this daypost: I hope you have seen Dr Leslies and
that you are taking remedies; may God bless them and soon restore you to
health: Dear Plebst who came Saturday with Keiler was much disapointed not
to find you and much grieved to hear of your sickness. He will leave this
on tuesday with Mr Leclar for the Hills through Paulghoat. Where Keiler
goes I dont know. Ebenezer with Cap Dobbi s son came too.

Saturday morning Fritz returned with Lechler and Hanhart. the last a fine
looking youth, honest serious Mr. L. did not like much our services on Sun-
day, he is to have our evening meeting. he had already some reading and ex-
plaining yesterday evening I liked it.

Richter will come to morrow to finish your work! Today came a letter from
Hoch Fritz read it most part is but excuses for his silence and offering
you some of his boys for schoolmasters, Keiler says that there is vacation
till the 5 of May. Hoch much excited by the Comity's letter about Moegling,
on the whole his health not better, he cannot bear any trouble. Plebst be-
lieve that he will soon go home. I had a nice letter from Mrs Deggeler. Mrs
Hauff has taken charge of the school instead of Deg Plebst says that Deg
helps in the printing in his stead. Dr Brett desires much to go way if not
home on the Hills at least, if no leave granted he will take it!

Thomas was at the meeting rather long I got so tired and nervous that I
would have done right to go to bed.

Richter is to leave on Saterday after the marrige Keuler goes to Kodakal.
I am anxious to hear about you

                           Yours aff J. Gundert


.fo -
611Gutenmorgen mein theurer Vater!
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Marie Gundert.

.fo +
Gerade bin ich aufgestanden von einem gesunden Schlafe und lieblichem Traum
von Dir Du warst auf dem Sopha und ich neben Dir und Du redetest so vÑter-
lich so herzlich mit mir und warst so lieb und ich so frîhlich und wohl.
Beinahe wollte es mir wehe thun, als ich dann merkte, es war nur ein schî-
ner angenehmer Traum! Doch hoffe ich, wird dieser sich bald verwirklichen,
wenn Du zu uns zurÅckkehrst, worauf ich mich recht herzlich freue. Unser
Tisch ist mit einem Male recht lang geworden, wenn Du ihn nur auch noch be-
leben kînntest, Du guter Papa! Nun der Herr mîge Dich segnen und Dir Deine
Gesundheit und neue KrÑfte verleihen da· Du heiter und stark zu uns kommst,
da· wir zusammen Ihn preisen!

Doch Sein Wille geschehe. Er wei· ein Jedes Seiner Kinder zu leiten und zu
tragen. Er segne Dich und uns mit Seinem Frieden, der hîher ist denn alle
Vernunft.
.fo -
                         In Liebe Dein Kind Marie

.ns
.dr HG280358.2
