.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                               <31 Aug 58>*
Dear Papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <31 Aug 58>*
Yesterday we had no letter from you, the rain which is abundant has perhaps
detained it, I hope you will stay at Coimbatoor if the rain continues for
some days. You have a hard trip from Paulg. to Ponany and this. Hanhart is
still with us this week he looks well; but does not learn so quick as Con-
vert which perhaps grieves him. If the weather becomes fine Fritz will go
to Tellicherry today or tomorrow. He has not been well of late, the liver
out of order, if he goes Hanhart goes too

Please do not began your journey to Ponaney untill the weather be fine and
go slowly with proper food. Glasson says our little horse is getting old we
should get rid of it With love to dear Stroble
.fo -
                                          Yours J. Gundert


                                                611Calicut the 31st August 58
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Marie Gundert auf der RÅckseite obigen Briefes.
My very dear Papa!

.fo +
So we hope this letter will find you in good health at Palgh. Again on the
way down to us! Thank God that He has dealt so well with us all. - Now
there is a fine rain! The Glassons also were very anxious to get some for
their plantation. For today Mrs. Gl. had invited all the schoolgirls to her
house, but as it rains so heartely it will perhaps not be. - We hope you
will not get too much on your way down! -

May the Lord bless you in body and in soul, and may He guide you safe back
in our midst! May also He soon fulfil his word: Und ich will meinen Geist
ausgie·en Åber Alles Fleisch! May His spirit come also upon us to quicken
me, that I may not fall away from Him. oh He must keep me!

                          A kiss from your Marie
.ns
.dr HG010958
