.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                             Coonoor 4th-7th December <59>*
Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 4th-7th December <59>*
Yesterday our letters went off. Today went to two meetings first in The
FitzGeral<d's>* where Moerike who lives there gave us a nice exhortation on
the 11th of the Hebr about Enoch who walk with God, afterward in Mrs Lawson
Strobel had prayer while Capt Harkness read a sermon, for St had not been
permitted to speak being not quite well in his stomack. The Chaplain has
asked Orme to officiate during his absance, this has grieved our Dr L. so
much that he seems to have made up his mind to give up church till a truly
pious minister comes. Dear Dr he has much to do for our party, and he does
it so joyfully. The Beutlers have come up yesterday, instead of going to
the Bangalow they just fall on poor Mrs Hoch untill they go to Ootti where
they are to live. Happily the Dr said that Mrs Strobel is too weak to take
them in so we have escaped: I have house keeping for us four; but it is
difficult to get anything here. I like Mrs. Lawson indeed and I like Stro-
bel too he is a fine soul, with the heart right full of life and zeal, Yes-
terday I went to the weekly meeting in Mrs Ls house our next neighbour.
Half past four we sisters together that is Mrs Hoch, Diez, Lawson, Benet,
Marie and me. a blessed time indeed. at half pas six in the same house
again we met for tea the Strobels, Harckness Sometime there are more peo-
ple. The woodfalls Young Stanes. On Wednesday is a meeting at the Fitz-
Gerald's On Friday evening tea and meeting at Capt Harkness. I thank the
Lord to have brought me to this place for body and soul I am truly refresh-
ed, it was the very right time to come, it is so nice, cool the sun shin-
ing. The Lord is very good to me in giving this time of rest I value it
greatly and injoy it with thanks giving. I live as much as possible on veg-
etable and fruit when I can get. I keep house keeping for us four. In a few
days Mrs Casie* is to join for in expectation of the confinement of Mrs St
The morning early I take a cold bath drink a tumbler of water with a plan-
tain and take a walk

I hear that Fritz and Irion were not in favour of these meetings finding
fault with St. The Dr is very nice, he sends you love, said that he had got
a lesson from you at Cochin, he comes here every day he hopes you will come
back round the cape! The little Diez is better, they will go to Kaity when
the Moerikes return to their home. Strobel is anxious to return to Paul-
ghot; but he will scarcely be able to go before the end of January on ac-
count of his wife.

This time I have nothing for the dear sons, they will excuse me as I wrote
but a few days ago I send them hearty love and kisses. From Fritz we hear
often he prepares to go home. I felt sorry for Pauline <M”gl>* that the
Comm did no give leave to go home; for she requires it more than any one.
How ever she will go, if she lives so long. We have all confidence that if
the Commity knew her state she would allow her to go. Mrs Hoch has now ten
tailors at work! the work alone will certainly cost her more than the al-
lowance of the whole outfit! A tailor cost 8 as per day. We read just now
the evenings The revival in America. Oh may we see similar blessings here,
the land would soon be coverd with faithful missionaries from the natives.

Now with love to all
.fo -
                               Yours afftly
                                     J. Gundert.

P.S. Fran‡ois wrote me evidently afraid - he says that our consciences are
to lead us and if we fancy ourselves better than others we are directly
opposed to Christ's religion etc May God give you words of life for him and
to him ears.
.ns
.dr HG051259
