.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
3                                                      Beyond Goa 16 Apr 59

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 16 Apr 59
I wrote from Mang and Coompta where we disembarked some passengers and hap-
pily got no new ones except deck passengers for whom we need not care.
Where Stanger's are I donot know they seem to have left. In the night of
14th to Goa - guns in vain - we anchored, run in the morning of 15th and
found that only this morning the trip would be resumed. Therefore resolved
with some others and Capt to see old Goa. After breakfast went up in a boat
well covered - walked over some of the Churches. The old Francisco d'Assisi
Church very splendid, but forsaken - everywhere pictures of martyrdoms suf-
fered by priests etc at the hands of Malabar Muselmans etc - rather inter-
esting for some of the dresses, boats etc shown, the painting below medio-
crity. Then Cathedral Franc. Xaver's tomb etc - Hot walking indeed, return-
ed with Dr Harrison to the boat, from whence he sketched the place. When
the others returned from a Convent with several purchases we rowed back.
After dinner left again to see old Colonel Guzman, visited in Mgl's company
Dec 1845. He is now grey somewhat stately and distant: could not speak as I
wished, chiefly on account of Walton's accompanying Glasson - for Gl. who
was about to dun him got hooked in and gave him 20 œ to go down to Cal and
take a place on Parry's estate. The fellow looks wretched and I did not
like Gl's patronizing tender way with him, but of course I had nothing to
say as Gl. never asked me for my opinion. This morning - after a wretched
night so much did young Holloway cry - Glasson did a characteristic thing
sent Viran for milk, as we have done at Mang and Coompta - for the children
only, I never saw any - V. runs 3 miles for it, meanwhile the Signores Si-
gnoras and Signoritas come in the most fashionable dresses and fill all our
rooms. Which means 2, the ladies and the gentlemen's cabins, the latter and
all our basins being soon in requisition for the Portug passengers vomit-
ing, whilst lying about on our carpet bags beds and clothes. Well the
steamer is ready but no Biran. Glasson had told him to get milk any how,
the steamer moved about 7 AM and no Biran to be seen. Capt fidgetty and an-
gry for we have not a bit of coals to spare, and provisions etc are misera-
ble except drinkeables of which I alone with Dr Harrison buy none. We fired
a gun for him. At last he was seen following us in a boat and taken up. No
end now of passengers, we cannot hope to reach Bomb. before Monday morning.
The Capt. still expects new passengers at Vingorla, where I will post this!
Only so much that I also walked about Goa and was not too much tired.
Health wonderful! With true love to you all and thanks for your prayers -
for here we have no quiet moment all like Lucknow barracklife without the
danger of it - and hoping you continue praying for the poor wayfaring man
.fo -
                                                              Your HGdt
Kiss to Marie
.ns
.dr HG170459
