.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                               Basel den 19ten Juni. [1859]
Liebe Mutter und Marie.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 19ten Juni. [1859]
Ich habe Euch schon lange nicht mehr geschrieben nun will ich Euch einmal
wieder einen Brief schreiben. Un·er Vater ist ungefÑhr 2 Wochen und 4 Tage
weggerei·t von hier und kommt am Samstag wieder zum Missionsfest. Ich bin
gesund! Seid ihr gesund? Wir waren sehr vergnÅgt wo un·er Vater hier war.
Ich freue mich sehr auf die Sommerferien. Wir waren eingeladen zu einer
Frau. Dort haben wir gebadet und Kuchen und Kaffee bekommen und sind dann
in den Hof gegangen und haben gespielt und haben dann noch Kirschen und an-
dre Leckereien bekommen. Ich grÅ·e und kÅsse Euch
.fo -
                       Euer
                           Euch liebender Sohn David Gundert.



                                                              <29 June 59>*

611My dear wife.
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert.

.fo +
On the 25th I left Stuttg - the 5 boys met me at the railway terminus. D.
was delighted. When we approached the Kinderhaus he forbade me to look up -
at least I must not look at the 2d story. When I entered I found 9 flower-
pots in my window, a fine bouquet besides and a garland around the lookg
glass. He then wished Oh that men were immortal, then we should always have
our parents. Again: now there are 4 happy people in the room. He knew all
about Chiracal when I drew it before them: more yet of Mangalore. Of the
Catech boys he remembered chiefly Hermann and regretted to hear of his
death. All have had good testimonials this month. D is the 3d in his class.
Frederick and Paul are in another class, the first 5th the other 14th: but
you know that F. has been kept back for a year, having only to repeat the
lessons which are new to Paul. Evidently they try to give me joy by their
behaviour in school and institution. They wait anxiously for leave to go
with me in the vacation. No children are this time permitted to travel but
those whose parents are present. There is sometimes much trouble to get
them back in time.
.ns
.dr HG200659
