.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                        Dizenbach 20 Aug 59
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 20 Aug 59
.an 2
----------
1. ... im Original.
Once again from this waterplace after I have on a visit at Stuttg received
your letter of ...611 June (You ought to write the date when you begin the
letter, or you forget at last to put one). I am glad you have received so
early the news of my safe arrival as it will have removed from you various
apprehensions and must have shown that the Lord smiles kindly on this our
temporary separation. Your news of Garthw. pretty much as I expected. Mrs
West may now have a new time of grace offered, as one illusion after the
other is exploded. I am glad for Miss Will, remember me to her when you
write. BÅhrer's I hear have been here 2 years ago with Esther, but I can
only hear of their names. You tell nothing of Indian news, except the wreck
of the steamer. Here is absolute dearth of such things. the meeting of the
Madr Fusiliers is most indistinctly hinted at. Has there been anything like
an outbreak? Who has been drowned in the Pownah? Perhaps Lewis or Williams?
Not that you need make inquiries: but write what one just hears about it.

Sunday 14th all went to the RC Church for the sermon: so I followed and
heard about the Church patron St Laurence, how he served as deacon and how
he died. Very strange mixture. At dinner I therefore proposed to have an
evangelical service, however modest: and as the 2 older padres refused I
preached on the text of the morning Jo. XII,24 etc how we are to serve and
to die taking our example and strength from our great deacon and faithful
witness J.C. I had about 20 hearers, and felt at least strengthened on my
part. I became known in consequence and have since had talks with different
guests. - On the 16th I went to Stuttg for a meeting with the padres of my
age; we met on the 17th to the number of 16, of whom about half are believ-
ers. The others were partly queer people, one Kurz whom Herm. once visited
a writer of novels and editor of newspapers, the other Fink a writer and
translator of lower stamp and quite Frenchified. It lasted rather too long
for me, and curious recollections rose up of old days and childish doings.
- Then I saw of course our good people and had a few nice hours with them.
One at Vike's with Mrs Kern was interesting as she returned from Staefa and
told us of the Trudel, that Christian demoiselle who heals by prayer,
teaches and guides many persons to lead them to perfection. It is a curious
mixture, with dangerous elements, but certainly respectable thro' an en-
tireness in all she does or attempts. Her followers make of course a 2d
Messiah of her. On the 18th I returned to my bath, and found the guests
somewhat diminished. It is extremely quiet here, some persons certainly de-
sire the truth and as there is little noise or amusement, opportunity is
offered to discuss the most important questions leisurely. An old minister
Hoffmann is very attentive, though now and then queer with his hypochon-
driacal manners. One lady speaks like a Christian and makes a good impres-
sion. Others more ignorant and distant are at least not averse to have a
talk. May the Lord make me faithful to them: and first to Himself, for I
often find my heart astray, readier to bring in Missionsubjects, than His
adorable person. Now farewell once more and Grace be with you
.fo -
                                                    Your HG
.ns
.dr HG200859.2
