.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, 2Calicut1, Malabar, via Marseille and 2Madras1

Private                                                     Basle 24 Dec 59

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 24 Dec 59
My dear wife

I have no letter to answer, except Mary's lost one which came leisurely via
London. But I have to communicate to you that on the 21st there was a Com-
mittee Session, in which resolutions were passed about your return. Namely:
you are authorized to draw from Pfleiderer 1900 Rs for your passage home.
You are not distinctly called home by the overland way: as the Comm. had
not wished any party to come by this route, they could also not invite you.
But you are at liberty to go as you like. In an enclosed note to the Ar-
buthnots I ask them to supply Pfl. with money. Now here I am in a perplexi-
ty, not knowing exactly the state of my funds. You will remember that 50 Rs
are to be paid to Diez in June 1860 for little Willy: something also to
Miss Will: then arrangements to be made about Lydia. The particulars I can-
not now detail, havg no accounts with me: but you know enough to settle
these things in general, leaving me to deal hereafter with the minute de-
tails. Anyhow you will be able to take if you want it 2 overland places and
come via Marseille before the rainy season, if God should so direct you.
You can also - if you are two - go by a vessel that may touch at the Coast
and comes round by the Cape. Should you be alone, you would come overland
of course. (You might also hint to Irion that if within a year he returns
overland - a single person - nobody will say anything about it - only they
do not like larger parties to come that way). The Lord will I trust direct
you. My letter to Arb. you will show to Fritz, in case they should like the
Homenews to be continued to them Only they must then pay for it. I do not
know exactly when my subscription ceases.

Then you send that letter to Pfleid that he may forward it to the Arbuth-
not's and get the money there for you - should you not require it all you
will mention to Pfl how much you require. If carefully done Rs 2100 ought
to bring you home overland, but you need not stint yourself. The Lord will
show the way.

Grimm's Deutsches W”rterbuch (1 Vol with 5 appendices) is to go to Cannano-
re Burkhardt's written exposition of Isaiah to Tellicherry. Ask at Cann.
Tell. etc for books of mine (and musick) Now farewell
.fo -
                                                     Your HGdt

(My health is pretty good, the cold was intense, but is over now)
.ns
.dr HG281259.2
