.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Calicut

<7>611                                                          Bom 25 Apr 59
.an 2
----------
1. Von anderer Hand - mÅ·te "8" hei·en.

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 25 Apr 59
On Saturday I went with Glasson to Butcher's Island, where I preached an
Easter Sermon to the Seamen and officers. Very attentive congregation. Re-
turned this morning, found your letters Marie's yours and Fritz'es with one
for Glasson and was much rejoiced to see that also the outward connection*
continues. I return the letters via Mang. They will perhaps have to be sent
to Merc. - If I had gone 2d class, the Captain would have made me mess with
the first class and my ... would have been where it was on deck. At Goa I
saw how all this is done and there is no difference to speak of. But the
Parsees said they did not know of a secd plan merely to make me go to the
first. But however that may be it does not matter and I am well over it. I
did not wish for an umbrella, we said together I should bring a new one
from Europe. Here at Bomb. I hardly walk, spend much for Buggy's etc I am
glad you are in my room. Now listen and obey do not give it to the Hodges'
etc when they come, do not consider it as a passing arrangemt, but sit
quietly down in it as if there was no other way for you. I wish not that
others should be there. Though you may of course take any room- or bedfel-
low who cannot be otherwise provided for. Anyhow I trust you will have less
of visitors than we had of late. I assure people nowhere take so much trou-
ble with their guests as you are accustomed to do. I have here found a box
of Mal. papers and books (Mspt) which I shall leave till my return adding
to it whatever of bedclothes I do not want. Glasson was not quite well this
morning. At Butch. Isld he was rather nice, interested in some Christian
questions. Mrs M.<itcheson>* I like very well him also. It seems a peaceful
and happy home. He is somewhat dissatisfied with the service and may in the
end turn Coffeeplanter Gl. of course advises this above all. Stangers are
communicative and anxious to stand well with all of us, so there is nothing
unpleasant in our intercourse. Farewell
.fo -
                                                            Your HG.

Tomorrow I hope to dear Marie and Fritz
.ns
.dr HG260459
