.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
<Mrs Julia Gundert, Calicut, Malabar, via Marseille and Bombay>611
.an 2
----------
1. Anschrift von Hermann Gundert jun.

                                                            Bale 28 Sept 59
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 28 Sept 59
Yesterday Herm. brought your and Marie's letter to the Kinderhaus where I
sat a while at Fred's bed, who has a little headache, (but will already to-
day be up again) and makes booksigns in his bed. Thanks for the news. If
you can not get the mats of the size wanted send others such as one has. I
do not think that you should take particular anxiety about them. - With
your letter came one from Young which the post had delayed 2 full months.
He does not talk of Burmah, but mentions his return to India as fixed upon
the 20 Oct. mail. Fritz has just written about his health etc. I hope the
Comm. will do something to get a sanitary near the Dr. - Mrs Mîgl's letter
has grieved me immensely. I mean that my suggestion about Harriet H should
lead them to forget all their letters and orders to Mrs Kullen etc. I only
hope she says No - otherwise it will be a pretty mess for the whole Mis-
sion. - Today 30 Sept the party left for Bombay - 7 persons, the 2 brethren
Martig (China) and Reinhardt (Cannanore) with Mrs Schlunk, Misses Werner
Lavanchy and Hirt and our old Lydia who is still a creature that cannot be
relied upon. She ran away from Nonnenweiher to Bale and would not repent.
When the ladies were told that they must look sharply after her Miss L.
burst into tears, as if that was too hard - and L. found it out at once
that here she had found the softest friend and clang to her tho' she could
not speak to her either with her Engl or German. Mrs Schlunk and Miss Wer-
ner are the 2 most developped characters among the ladies, you would like
them. Mlle Lav. spoke of paying you a visit, but that will depend on other
wills than her own. - Lest I forget it, please write whether you want me to
buy you spectacles and of what number. I ought to know something distinct
otherwise I would purchase from mere guess

Inspector thinks it indeed probable that we may be sent to Cannanore. You
will know that there they have received orders to buy a compound between
Heb's and the seashore, in order to receive the Chiracal girls. MÅller has
not asked for a visit to Europe before he be sent to the Wynaad, but he de-
clines going there and wants a younger man to be sent to that province.
However as Gl. does not write, nothing will be done in that direction.

Today is your birthday as well as our Emma's. May the Lord give you joy in
your children, this is the best I can wish you as I understand by it both
the white and the native children. David is very nice Yesterday he was the
only one besides Jacob Ammann that came to the Miss[ionar]y meeting; and he
knew afterwds to relate what he had heard, both the Chapter of the good
shepherd and also the story related. Fr. says in excuse it is too langwei-
lig, Paul complains it is so hot in that hall and then one must sit so
quiet. They are not great friends of giving. Jacob A. collects for the Mis-
sion and nearly forces some others to contribute likewise, whereas ours
will never subscribe and give but rarely. They say their income of 10 cen-
times per week is too precarious. If there be only Ziemlich gut in their
testimonial, they get no centimes for a month. And ziemlich gut they argue,
is not bad, is in fact good only somewhat moderately. With suchlike griev-
ances they excuse themselves from giving: for which Carl Weigle has a par-
ticular inclination, more than any one else. But I ought now to conclude.
May the Lord be with you and keep you yet many a year and let you see fruit
of your labor. D. assured me yesterday: believe me I love you more than
they (the 2 others) and so I do Mama. But I am as sure whenever you come
their hearts will soon be gained. They want me to make it sure that I will
send you out immediately after my return. But this will be as the Lord will
direct. So then adieu for a while
.fo -
                                  Your HG


611Meine liebe Mutter und Maria, -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert jun.

.fo +
vorgestern machten wir hier den ersten eigentlichen Abschied von Miss ge-
schwistern mit. - Ich war sehr ergriffen. Es sind dies die ersten Freunde,
die wir kennen lernten, und welche wir auch drau·en mit lebendigem Interes-
se verfolgen werden. Ich hoffe, da· etliche auch bei euch heimisch werden;
das liebe FrÑulein Werner, Braut von Herrn Pfleiderer, hat gleich gefragt,
ob ihr in Mangalore seid. - Auch Frl Lavanchy wird sich natÅrlich nach Mut-
ter und Schwester sehnen. Gelt, liebe Mutter und liebe Marie, - ihr thut
was ihr kînnt! Gott erquicke sie nach dem Maa· ihrer BetrÅbni·! - Der alte
Vater Werner weinte tiefbewegt, wie ein Kind, beim Abschiedsgesang im Saal.
Sie wurden aber wunderbar getrîstet und haben gewi· ein herzliches Bejahen
von Gott erhalten auf die Bitte, die geschehen war, da· sie nÑmlich nicht
um ein Kind Ñrmer, sondern 2reicher1 in der Heimath ankommen werden

FÅr eure lieben Briefe herzlichen Dank. - NÑchstes Jahr gehts Englisch an;
- dann kann ich selbst ohne MÅhe lesen. - Aber verstanden habe ich de·halb
doch heute schon was ihr wollt sagen, und sage natÅrlich herzlich Ja; wei·
mich auch 2eins1 mit euch im Ziel, und freue mich herzlich meines Berufes. -
Wenn ich nur auch recht durch Basel durchkomme; mit dem Anstaltsleben, und
mit den verschiedenen BrÅdern. "Wenn Du Dich Deines Berufs freust, sagte
der liebe Vater, - so kommst Du durch!" - Der treue Gott machs wahr, was
ich selber mîchte, - und dann liebe Marie kanns wohl sein, da· Du mir ein-
mal Haus hÑltst und Dich mit mir der Predigt des Evangel freust! -

                           Herzlich kÅssd euer H
.ns
.dr HG280959.2
