.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                         Basle 31 D611 [1859]
.an 4
----------
1. Blatt abgerissen.
2. UrsprÅnglicher Text auf altem Blatt, den Gundert in seinen Brief einbe-
___zieht.
My dear Marie

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 31 D [1859]
Many thanks for yours of the 15 Nov. Die Photogr*611 N. 1. kam natÅrlich
durch die BrÑute No 2 durch Reuthers via Madras. Capt Roberts kenne ich
nicht persînlich, nur per renommÇe. Henry Groves scheinst Du mit Fk Gr zu
verwechseln, wenigstens hîrte ich nie von der Frau des erstern was auf die
letztere pa·t. D sagst Du betrug sich schÑndlich gegen T. St. Ist der Aus-
druck nicht zu scharf Besinne Dich doch. Hast Du auch die Gegenpartei ge-
hîrt? - Stanes Harkn Dobbie Mrs Laws und Bennett etc bitte ich alle wenn es
noch langt herzlich von mir zu grÅ·en. But I forget myself - seeing Mama is
with you I ought to write Engl. I was glad to hear you were with Mama -
Shall I tell you that I felt the effects of dissipation in your letters. It
is so easy to relapse into the world, its griefs and pains, its plays and
pleasures. Now you write in a very settled spirit - you thank the Lord that
He has ordered all things well. But I can hardly shake off the idea that
you are still more agitated about past things than you confess to me. Sis-
ter Louise is of course much more easy to talk to than I am at this dis-
tance but I cannot help feeling now somewhat in the dark as the question
approaches, what is to be your party if Mama finds it best to return to me.
I have resigned all influence in answering this question and can but ask
the Lord to guide Mama and you aright. But I am naturally anxious about
you, because your mind has not been so staid and calm of late that I could
easily believe you would without much ado find out the best way. On the
contrary I can fancy that the call to return to Germany may be a blow to
your fondest hopes, or also that God may mean to retain you in India and
your mind is so agitated that you cannot hear his voice and return to
WÅrtbg, merely to find yourself unhappy there. Im Sturm die Sonne spiegelt
nicht im Meer ihr heilig Angesicht. In an agitated state of mind you cannot
be* sure of the voice of him that speaks to you. You remember you sent this
from <Kornthal 3. Mai 1855>621 to Herm who showed me of late the letters of
his <Maria.>621 How often did God even then knock at your heart, how often
has he done it since. But you have yet <Grundlage des>611 to acquire the doc-
ile attitude of <Kornthaler Streits>611 the perfectly contented child. Now it
is this 2alone1 I am anxious about. I do not 2want1 you here - I am not desir-
ous to see you (splendidly - or sufficiently) settled in India -: I should
rejoice to have you again as my "Madle" for any length of time, I could al-
so thank the Lord if you were called by him to stop in India: but - I wish
above all that by no stupidity or sinfulness of ours God's good and perfect
will be prevented from being carried out. Therefore dear girl I beg you to
be very quiet before Him who is our peace, that you be perfectly sure of
His will and carry it out in faith. May He help you the more as you may be
surprized by the suddenness of all this change and find it difficult to
beat once so open with Mama as may now be needed. But of this I am sure
that tho' the Lord may come as a thief more than once, he steals no good
thing from us. He may take many things away, but love joy hope and other
treasures of real value he can only give and increase. May we experience it
so among ourselves and find every day a new promise realized in our behalf.
- Dear Heb. knows on the whole what my anxieties for you are. He says also
that he could not wish you to remain in India, except married: otherwise to
return with Mama. The little boys and girls were charmed with him, when I
took him out yesterday. He knew of course most of the children: many of
them could not well remember his face. David said after the first greeting
on Wednesday "so lieb ist der" - You may fancy that he makes noise here,
both in the house and in the town, feels very well and girds himself for
any amount of work. Now happy new year from your
.fo -
                                                Papa
.an 2
----------
1. In < > von altem Brief.
