.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                Sunday evening 7 o clock <etwa 1/ Marz 70>*
Dearest Marie

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: <1 Marz 70>*
We have just recieved your letter for which many thanks. I can give a good
report of your two pets. On friday the little one seemed to miss you, slept
at night as usual, the next morning as I entered the room I found Theodor
in Rickeles bed where he had spent half night, so we took him in our bed-
room this night at two he evidently thought he was still by Rickele said
"he will by dir commen", but as he found he was near my bed remained very
quietly and slept till 6 O. Carl who had slept but one hour in day time
slept well till midnight. to day he has been most time with me exceedingly
brave and lieb, the two girls went to church, <Ich predigte>611 afternoon
they payd visits two hours during which time Carl was very good with me; It
is so cold that I do not let him go out, Theodor was this afternoon with
Georg Zahn Carl Sheffel is again unwell. From Jettle we have not heard <Du
sprichst von Wildbad? Wohl Weil!>611
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. In < > von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +

I hope that Paul is with you today love to dear David and to all in your
house, Tell dear Mrs Isenberg how much grieved I feel for her in all her
trials give her special love

When Teodor percieved that you had gone he cried, I then said because he
had been naughty with you he got then comforted and since had said often to
me gelt ich been lieb Mama wird bald commen, he is indeed very nice and
obedient.

Rickle wishes one pound of blue cotton she will repay you afterward. About
returning you must not be in a hurry, if you have to stay there longer, we
shall soon wash without you at least if Jettle can come. Our wash is thurs-
day and friday Thursday afternoon we begin D V.

Carl has slept two hours after dinnar he is still playing now

Now I conclude with hearty kiss Theodor has of course written you a letter
sealed it and believes that it will be sent to you, in it he said that he
had been with Gerorg was very lieb, sends kisses etc says gelt diese nacht
ich comme in dein bed

Adieu dearest Marie
.fo -
                                 Yours J G

love to Jettle
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert.

.fo +
611Ich hatte viel GeschÑft, 1/2 Bogen fÅr Miss Mag zu liefern in der Eile und
heute morgen Predigt. Auf Dich wartet eine amtliche Anfrage wegen Vermîgen,
Pfleger etc. Schuldt wartet damit, wie er auf mein Ersuchen sagte, bis Du
wieder da bist. Wann Du kommen wirst, konnte ich nicht sagen, deutete an,
etwa Dienstg oder Mittw. Aber machs wie Du fÅrs Beste findest. Sch sagt, er
kînne noch 8 Tage warten. Taufscheine der Kinder werden auch gewÅnscht.

Nun mit Ku·
.fo -
                               Adieu Dein V.
.ns
.dr HG010370.2
