.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
<Mlle Marie Gundert>611

                                                     Mangalore 14th June 57
My very dear Marie

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 14th June 57
For a whole month we have not heard from you; and by your last you did not
know as yet that D.V. you shall come soon to us. I trust that by God's
grace you come to us as one who has found happiness and peace in God whose
forgiveness alone can make us joyful and happy. It shall be indeed a great
favour from our God to see you again and enjoy together that love of par-
ents and children - which we scarcely have experienced having been sepa-
rated from each others while you were still so young and I was at the time
so ill and so irritated that you have or can have almost no recollection of
tenderness and love from me. So I shall be thankful to the Lord to bring
you in our midst and enable us to be to each other joy and comforts. I look
for ward with joy and fear, I say fear lest I should be disappointed; But
we trust in the Lord and hope He will bring you and make all right. Papa
who has now much to travel with his new appointement will be glad during
his long absence to feel there is one with me <to watch over Mama and re-
port about her.>611 I would have liked very much to hear from Corcelles as
the last time you wrote My brother and sister were so poorly? Now that you
be gone from them I shall hear very seldome from them, by this time you are
near going to Bale and perhaps to Stuttgard for it will be probably the
last time you see them all, perhaps this finds you there already. David
will specially be delighted at your coming to India, as he often said: I
will not leave you till my sister comes!
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Adresse und Anmerkung von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +

We heard from them this morning that is to say of Frederic and Paul and
from Dear Miss Culman, who very kindly joins usually a few lines to theirs
which are to us very precious as we like to know from her how are the boys!
In Stutgard you must give to dear Mama, Tante Emma, sister Emma and Jette
plenty kisses from me. and give them also my special thanks for their love
and cares of your brothers: Herman writes that he was loaded with presents
from them on his birthday. I feel truly thankful to them for the motherly
love they have to our dear sons

I have plenty to do here so that between Mrs Hoch and myself you will find
very nice work. I have been lately less well than usual and feel that I can
no more do as formerly nor bear fatigues. I am thankful that we are living
in a cool nice place comapared to Cherical

611Nur noch ein Wort des Grusses. Mama konnte nicht fertig werden, so viele
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +
Abhaltungen gab es. Gott lasse es Dir ein Anliegen werden ihr helfen zu
kînnen, wenn Du kommst. Mit dem Geist der Demuth und Liebe ist das leicht.
Ohne ihn unmîglich. Wenn Du aber suchst und bittest, findest und kriegst Du
Åber Bitten und Verstehen.

Ich schliesse Dich Gottes Obhut empfehlend. Es ist uns lieb wenn Du mit Pe-
regrina Isenberg bald einen ReisegefÑhrtenbund schlie·en kannst, und der
Engel Gottes geleite euch
.fo -
                                Dein Vater
16 Juni
.ns
.dr HG140657.2
