.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                        Cannanore 19 Jan 57

My dear David

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 19 Jan 57
When Mr Fritz came from the ship he told us that you still cried much, but
I trust that the good Lord has yet given you sound sleep and that you for-
got your grief, and this morning it will already have been easier to bear.
I got up early and saw with Mr Fritz how the ship far away like a little
speck vanished under a cloud, it may have been before Chombala about 6* AM.
Mrs Ammann with Mr C MÅller went off about 5 o'clock, Mr Fritz will with
the 2 new men leave for Calicut about 10, and we will in the evening embark
for Mangalore. Now I will tell you that I know full well that our dear Lord
is also in the Seringapatam and that he stands before the Cabins and looks
in, and if any child says: I am naughty, make me good and obedient, he
hears it and does this and many other fine things just as we want them. You
want many things, obedience to dear Mrs BÅhrer, kindness to the other chil-
dren, cleanliness and tidiness with your clothes and other things, also re-
membering about floods (I whisper this into your ear) - all this and much
more the good Lord can give and will help you to read and write that you do
not forget all you learnt. I hope we shall hear good news from Cochin: and
that you become cheerful and help to take care of little Johnny which will
make glad the good Doctor's <Brett>* heart. Also that you are no more
afraid of winds and waves, but know that our Father sends these just as
will be best for us. We are very ready to pray every day for you; if we do
not forget it. Of course we do not think we shall ever forget it, but we
never know well our hearts. I think in England you will be glad to get a
long letter from us and one from Mr Haller too. God bless you dear David
.fo -
                                                                  Your Papa
.ns
.dr HG210157
