.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
+ An Arbuthnot._____(Archiv)

                                                   Mangalore 30 March 1857.
My dear Sir!

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 30 March 1857.
Yours of the 25th. March has just come to hand. I thank you for your kind
consideration in first asking me if I am still willing to accept the ap-
pointment of Depty Insp.

You can easily imagine that 4-5 months change many things in a circle such
as ours is, accordingly I had serious misgivings of late as to my right or
duty of abandoning my present work under existing circumstances. But I can
now declare that I am willing to undertake the office.

As this is a private letter I may as well state, that I take this step, on
the one hand with the resolution of doing my best to justify the confidence
placed in me, by devoting myself fully to the new duties of the office, on
the other hand also determined to quit it as soon as I shall discover that
I cannot do all that is expected of me. I might therefore have said, I am
ready to accept it provissionally. Only this might look ridiculous, as it
is in the nature of these appointments to be provissional. Still I think it
right to let you know that I have promised the Committee of the Bas. M.
Soc. to return to my former work whenever they should think my services re-
quired. Not that I should follow such a call without giving you time for
making the necessary arrangements ___u.s.w.
.fo -
                                       H. Gundert.


.fo +
Arbuthnot hatte angefragt: Madras 25 March 57.

 .... The final answer of the govt. which gives me the necessary authority
has only this day reached me. Had it not been for a note I received from Mr
Robinson a few days ago, I should have at once gazetted you, but from what
he says I feel doubtful whether I am at liberty to do so and therefore
think it better in the first instance to ascertain whether you are willing
to undertake the office.

I need not say after all that has passed, that I trust your answer will be
in the affirmative. I should have written to you before this if I had been
able to say something definite; but as it is I was for months in daily ex-
pectation of receiving the answer from Bengal and when it came I was oblig-
ed as you will see from the enclosed (B) <Beilage B. siehe auf Brief vom 8
April 57.>611 order, to make a farther reference to this Govt.
.fo -
.an 3
----------
1. Bezieht sich auf die vorliegende Abschrift, die den Briefen in Marbach
___beiliegt.
.fo +

I believe that you are aware that the salary is Rs 350.- with Rs 25- for a
writer, Rs 10 for peons and Rs 6 for stationary etc also travelling allow-
ance at the rate of 4 annas a mile.

 ... On receiving your reply to this letter I shall be prepared in the
event of your accepting the appointment, to communicate with you fully re-
garding the details of your future duties.

.fo -
                    Bel. me my dear Sir yours very truly
                                            A.I. Arbuthnot.
.ns
.dr HG080457
