.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                         Calw 2d March 1863
My dearest tantele

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 2d March 1863
I was going to write to dear Mama; but German will not come, so I must in
English tell good morning to you all very dear people. I hope you came home
safe and found all ours in good health and spirit, better than you found
and left us here I mean two certain ladies who are* soon cast down and low
spirited sighing so deeply that it may be felt and heard darkning the at-
mosphere round them almost, but I hope to behave better when you come again
with dear Mama! Now my dear since you left I visited a person to whom I had
lent tracts, to my surprise and joy she told me that one of the tracts had
made her to tremble and search herself deeply before the Lord. she thought
I had made it for her. the tract is "Der unterschied zwischen waren und
falschen bekehrungen von Fredr. Krummaker." I pray you my dear as you have
promised to visit Dr Marriott to ask him to send me if possible a good
quantity of these very tract and also some of 2Das Kreuz1 I am more in want
of these than of the little books I told you of And Kindly let me know what
they cost The first mentioned one I keep always in my poket it is just what
I want to tell to the people. <Dann auch den Tractat: Nicht einmal im Him-
mel selig.>611
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. AnfÅgung von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +

We are here just as when you left. The Buserle are expected to day. papa
and Marie were at Altburg yesterday and after that we visited the Wagners
Mrs W. hopes Mama will visit her. How is dear Tante? has she given you rea-
son to hope we shall have the joy to have her in our fine house in Calw? I
trust she will not denie us this expected pleasure, and dear Jette what
does she say of our plans about her coming in April? prepare her a little
about the behaviour of our boys that she may not be too much surprised or
disappointed.

My beloved tantele give my sincere love and kisses to dear Mama tante jet-
te, love to the uncles to Mr Plebst etc

.fo -
                               Yours affectly
                                     Julie Gundert


.an 2
----------
1. AnfÅgung von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +
611Ich will nur herzlich grÅ·en. Am Freitag Abd traf ich Pf Werner bei Wid-
mann, Am Mittag darauf fuhr er heim. Gestern predigte ich in Altburg wo ei-
ne Monatsstunde nachher viele BrÅder zusammenfÅhrte. Am Samstag hatte ich
Frau Pf Handel besucht und zum 90sten Geburtstag "kratelirt." Auguste Den-
ner war auch dort. Marie und die andern grÅ·en herzlich Dich sowie Mama und
Tante, dasselbe thut
.fo -
                                Dein Bruder
.ns
.dr HG030363
