.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                         Calw 4th Novemb 63
My dearest Frederic

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 4th Novemb 63
Your boots have just arrived but I do not understand why you send two pairs
because one is still good, however I shall have them all mended and one
pair shall be sent back to you and one I shall keep here when you come on
Christmas you may then require them,

You should as soon as possible find the man who brought you your box and
pay him and ask him where he has un dÇpìt oder <(wo er einstellt)>* in Calw
that I may give him things when I have any You know that he has his dÇpìt
in Stutgart in Tubinger Stra·e bei Markwart. I shall in future pay for your
things when I send. I like to send by this man rather than by Beiser and in
Winter there will be no Omnibus going therefore we must settle with this
Wagner or what is his name? he brings often things from Mr Winkler to Beb-
lingen: tell me in your next whether you have seen him and where I am to
inquire for him here! About clothes and other things we shall see together
when you come. In three or 4 weeks we will have a wash. Marie is to return
to day from Tubingen. Yesterday I saw Bull who spends a few days with his
parents and will return to Stutgart. I shall be glad at the end of the year
to see my two sons and the joy schall be great if we can hear that the work
of the Lord is continuing and propering in each of you. Paul is very silent
about his feelings, it is a pitty for he might be helped by the experience
of others, pray for him and tell him always some things about his soul and
your experiences.

                             Adieu my dear Son
.fo -
                                    Your Mama J. Gundert



.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier von Hermann Gundert.
.fo +
611Die liebe Mutter konnte nicht recht verstehen, warum Du durch die Post
sendetest, da sie doch theurer ist als der omnibus.

Reichenbach hat mir gut gethan, auch der Gang nach Stammh mit Herrn Jos
Knapp. Frau Handel berief sich vor ihrem Tod auf Rom 4,5 und sagte lÑ-
chelnd: Da liegt die Gottlose! Sie meinte es reiche noch bis Sonntag mit
dem h. Abendmahl, aber Samstag frÅh kam ihre Stunde unerwartet. Der starke
Athem blieb plîtzlich aus. Daran allein erkannte man den Tod.

Marie kommt vielleicht heute Nachmittag oder Morgen. Sam's Brief an die
Committee hat Scheffel's ungemein gefreut. Insp verlas ihn. Freilich so
froh wird noch keiner hinausgekommen seyn von unsern BrÅdern, so ganz der
Heimath zu.

Es geht alles im gewîhnlichenn Gang mit den Knaben. Spielen kînnen sie da·
es eine Art hat. Auch Dav. hat noch nicht die rechte Lernlust. Ich hoffe
noch immer es kommt ihm, denn sein GedÑchtni· ist ausgezeichnet.

Nun lebewohl!
.fo -
                                  Dein V.

GrÅ·e Alles herzlich.
.ns
.dr HG041163.2
