.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                               <12 Nov 52>*

611My dear Mr W<alker>*
.an 2
----------
1. Konzept.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <12 Nov 52>*
On a visit which I lately paid to our Brethren at Manglore I have met dear
Mîrike, the intercourse with whom has refreshed my remembrances of your
person, and put it into my mind to address you on a subject which it is not
very pleasant to take in hand.

My relating at table some conversions wrought amongst Europeans at Canna-
nore I mentioned that for the purpose of frightening etc one of those gen-
tlemen away from Br Hebich, a silly story had been invented and eagerly
circulated, viz. that H. did once take the prayerbook into the chapel and
kicked it from one corner to another. Mîrike seemed rather surprised and
said this seemed to explain a word which Sir W Burton uttered at one of the
meetings held under the Bishop's auspices, where the question of Chr. Union
had been treated on the whole in a quiet and profitable way until the wor-
thy Judge arose and declared with some excitement of manner that unless
there was mutual esteem it was useless to talk of union, and how little
prospect of such a thing as Christian esteem, if a Protest. Minister as
lately happened, can contemptuously throw down in his Chapel the book of
Common prayer, and call the Community that used it a Devil's Church." (I do
not pretend to give the very words as M. uttered them, nor was he sure of
the exact expressions that were used): M. felt and supposes that others
felt likewise, that the hearts on parting were more estranged to each other
than when they met, and he could not suppress an idea that our Br Hebich
was the person alluded to. I am rather surprised that Sir W Burton should
have been permitted to utter such a statement, without being asked the name
of the guilty person, or at least his warrant for stating so much as a
fact. If union is not merely a fine idea to be talked of, but a precious
jewel to be earnestly sought for and in a great measure attainable by the
individual surely it becomes everyone to avoid propagating what may prove a
slanderous report agst a brother, and throwing vague suspicions into a num-
ber of susceptible hearts which do not as yet overflow with love of the
brotherhood though they have tasted its sweetness.

The meeting is now dispersed but what has been spoken is still working in
many hearts. I do not know if H is the person meant, but the name tho' kept
back in public may have been mentioned in private. As I am really desirous
after true Christian Union and as I believe you to stand on the same
ground, though in ecclesiastical parlance called by another name, as I know
moreover that you can better condescend to a German Christian than many of
your brethren in the Establishment, I would beg you to counteract the af-
fect these injurious words were calculated to produce.

I feel not free to suggest the ways in which this may be done. Neither do I
wish you to go out of your way for this purpose. But first I would beg you
to dismiss any disagreeable impressions which that statement (if really re-
lating to Hebich) may have left in your own mind. I am authorized by Br He-
bich <- and then you may have opportunity both on the hills and on your way
to Madras, to> to say that from 1834 for 7 years he faithfully used the
English prayerbook in his ministrations to Europeans, and that even after
his being stationed at Cann. in 1841 he continued to read the prayers once
a week, until some of his hearers suggested that a freeer mode of proceding
(such as in his weekday services) might perhaps prove more acceptable to
his congregation. He tried it and they pronounced it a great improvement.
Since that time he ministers without the prayers, tho' he has been repeat-
edly ready to read them to any Congregation to which he could find access
by their means. That he at any time threw down or otherwise contemptuously
treated the prayerbook, is a mere fiction, such as we are never surprised
to hear in a place like Cann, for no conversion of Europeans seems ever to
happen here without some new production of fertile fancy on the part of the
many idle youngsters at this station. - In a similar way, he denies entire-
ly havg ever called the Church of England a Devil's Church. He has spoken,
and has occasionally spoken in strong terms of the Churchdevil, which in-
deed has seduced many souls away from Christ. As he has often to treat of
grosser devils such as the dramdevil, the moneydevil etc, so he mentions
also the finer spirits which yet keep a man from being converted or draw
him from Christ even after having received grace viz. the bookdevil, the
workdevil, the will worship Devil and of course also the Churchdevil. "One
says how can I have my Church and therefore avoids a preacher who yet may
have approved himself to his conscience one says I am a Wesleyan I must
stick to my denomination etc" - Herein he generally dealt without partiali-
ty, until the Puseyites teaching finding as much fault with our German
Churches of the last years as with the Engl.* forced him to warn particu-
larly against the nearer enemy. - He does it in his own language which I
should not always like to imitate, but he has repeatedly tried to obviate
false impressions which his thundering, might leave in the hearts by de-
claring that he is no enemy to the Church of E. that she is as good as his
own or any other national Church and that he wishes to stand to other
Churches on the basis of Evangelical alliance.

So much I thought it right to say on this point and will only add that
though I write with Heb's knowledge, it is quite according to his wish. For
he is so accustomed to hear all sorts of reports that altho' he wishes his
friends to be prepared to reject and despise them, he will hardly take the
trouble of contradicting them. But he wishes to be kindly remembered by you
and hopes you are enjoying the mercies and peace of our Covenantgod in
Christ Jesus, as it is promised to all broken hearts

Br Muller has asked me ... tell you what I think of Cannan Menon in Anjer-
candy. I hardly know what to answer. I was somewhat acquainted with him 8
or 10 years ago, when he once even professed a distant desire to become a
Christian. But that had soon passed off and since he has kept entirely
aloof from us. The last 3 years I have hardly been in Anjercdy and Br. He-
bich paid little attention to what does not concern his immediate work. We
both have heard that he drinks, but cannot be positive about it. The Chris-
tian labourers do not seem to complain of him in particular. They consider
it as a hardship that they are still prevented from going to buy their dai-
ly necessaries in the neighbourhood of the Tier houses (in the __________)
- proclamations have been issued in vain by the higher authorities, and
they occasionally think that there is some spite of Cannan or other influ-
ential Tiers at the bottom of their being still in a measure (new Govern-
ment measures) treated as Puleiars, whilst quite apart from the custom of
the land recognizes that imaginary pollution as yielding to baptism or cir-
cumcision. Other Tiers declare themselves ready to receive the Christians
as ________________________, but the higher officers in the plantation ap-
pear glad to keep them as low as they can. This may eventually be no harm,
though for the present it keeps up a little irritation



.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Notizen in einer Ecke des Blattes.
611L Gundert Weber Alpinus Haarîht*
Oehler alt T und Eph
Palmer st Schmid
30 Bogen zu 3 Fl von Grimms Wîrterbuch
In Homburg Hagnau Spielkînig Åber 100000
WÅrtbg Bad scheinen von Darmst. zurÅckzutreten



621Rev. H Gundert, Cannanur, Mit Cooly retour
.an 2
2. UrsprÅnglicher Brief, auf dessen RÅckseite Hermann Gundert einen Teil
___des obigen Konzepts schrieb.

Lieber Br Gundert,

.fo +
Dank fÅr das öbersandte. Chalac.* Zeitung ect. Ich schrieb Dir lezten Sonn-
tag nach Mang. Das hat Dich wohl nicht mehr erreicht. Es stand nichts bes.
im Brief. Strange bat mich ihn nach Cheracal zu begleiten, wahrsch. die
nÑchste Woche, denn seine Arbeit ist zu Ende. Wies* ist ob er zuerst nach
Can. oder Cheracal geht: Wenn es auf mich ankommt bringe ich ihn zurÅck
nach Cheracal wenn Dirs recht ist.

Gesch.* Jene* werden wohl Morgen hier ankommen, heute sind sie wahrsch. in
Chombala.

Den Prisoner Abdoolla hat man gestern freigelassen er hatte Rs* 500 Caution
zu geben. Die andren Mitgefangenen sind theils frei theils fÅr einige Jahre
in den Jail gesprochen. NS das Ende dieser Geschichte und wohl der Anfang
von einer neuen.

Hiermit alles aufs herzl. grÅssend
.fo -
                                   Dein
Dienstg Nettur*
.ns
.dr HG181152
