.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

6                                                          Balm 26 March 52

My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 26 March 52
Yesterday I wrote of Moglings plan to give up his Secretaryship, but he did
not prosper with it; the brethren indeed did choose Greiner instead of him
for the GenlConference, in case M. should lose his office - but when Insp.
heard of it, he interposed his authority and decreed that Mîgl must at all
events serve during the Conference. So there seems to be nothing to prevent
my coming next week.

In the evening I went to Foulis, saw the Youngs and Mrs Cummin - and staid
with Weigle for tea - When I returned, - it was a nice evening, but I was
tired and did not like to stay long - I found Hebich on Balmatha he had ar-
rived in the evening in the lower house. He related his journey and spoke
of all his Talipar. and Palghat business. The money story also was given in
his own words. But I regretted that he had not taken Fritz along with him.
Mrs Cumm. told me that C MÅller is to help out during H's absence, but FM
has left already (or?) to meet Mrs Irion and accompany her home.

After that there was a strange disturbance, because it was found out that
Hebich had not got the letter authorizing him to pay 3300 Rs to the Hil-
lers, and on Sunday they are already to embark for London. So Hebich had in
all haste to write bills for them, and as the post cannot be depended upon,
a man was sought to get on board a pattimar as soon as possible to bring
the money to Hiller. So the talking continued till long after midnight.
Still I could sleep little interrupted by all these disturbances

Mrs BÅhrer will return to Moolky today or tomorrow There is no other news
Tomorrow is our last day for the Liturgy I hope we shall finish and have
allready for returning quickly to our stations

Now farewell. This is perhaps my last
.fo -
                              Ever yours HG.
.ns
.dr HG030452
