.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Von Freund Gundert aus Bristol Anfg Februar 1836. einem andern Briefe ange-
.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: Anfg Februar 1836.
h„ngt. Copie611
.an 2
-----------
1. So die erste Zeile der folgenden Abschrift.

My heart's thank to thee; and be our Lord thy reward. I have neither time
nor room for writing circumstantially, but an answer shall follow God will-
ing, when B. comes back. That what convinceth us of sin et judgment et
righteousness is now and ever Love. the more you all love me, the more you
will help God in keeping me on the right and simple way. Quotations and ar-
guments avail nothing; we are already dead for them. But we are still alive
for seeking and finding the face, the heart, the mouth and the healing
hands of our Saviour: be therefore quiet. Neither in baptism nor in Mis-
sionary affairs shall any thing be done without being sure of the 2express1
2calling1 of the Lord. And then ist not the least reason for fearing the in-
fluence of the dear friends, in whose midst I live, because God bids them
to honour our liberty. I did not listen much to the complaints of him, whom
you mentioned: for I perceived, that his objections were more of worldly
nature; but I have prayed with the other, who cares anxiously about the
right way. I came not to London, as M. has said (perhaps inconsiderably)
with a decided hatred of the english Ch., but as a poor brother who sought
to refresh himself with German brethren. I have openly (before Mr Young)
confessed my desire, that if I have spoken any thing which wounded them
(though I never began to speak about Ch., but was called upon by mockery to
declare my opinion) I entreat them to pardon me, as we are pardoned. But
generally there was little caring about Son and spirit. Concerning the Li-
turgy (burying service etc.) my judgment is still the same. But I am not an
enemy of the Ch. itself. If they call the english world to be a Church
(parliament etc.) - I say well, that I put this Church in one rank with the
other world. - and cannot pray for its further happings* and duration from
the moment, where the episcopal system is caked to be established by scrip-
ture and spirit, I say that the english Ch. pursues is some measure - the
way of the Romish in changing historical facts arrising to its wellpleas-
ing. If they say - jure humane - I am satisfied (cf. Gieseler 1*, p. 106.
N.) Howbeit I am none of the Ch. and have therefore no calling to examine
all her institutions. But I am truly sorry, that the blood of her martyrs
(knowst thou their history?) has not produced more fruits in that the Ch.
instead of growing forward, is still the same and seeks to spread out her
mingling and deadening system. to the East Indian Mission. Dost thou not
see, that the Ch. begins now to hold closer institutions than in the time
of Burnet? And what is the reason? Her being threatened by the loss of
worldly riches* and influence. Wy do they care of things, the loss of which
would make the Ch. more churchlike? I have not forgotten Spl.; his memory
rather did accuse me, that in the past years I sometimes would rejoice for
a litte season in his lights therefore the recollection of his manner of
thinking and preaching showed me, that I have not as* his* does, founded
all my actions on the eternal rock of the scripture. Spl. was almost an
idol 1 J. 5,21. whilst God would give me a brother and father in him. As it
regards L. I hope Mglg will give to its time the surest reports. - If God
will bring us together, my heart never rejoiced more in the way of the
cross. What a happings* that we love another as the world cannot love. Tru-
ly we are part through death to life. Let us give Glory to the Lamb
.
                                                  thy HG.
.ns
____
.ns
____
.ns
____
.ns
____
.ns
.dr hg000236.2
