.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Tellicherry. Bearing

                                          Ootacamund Thursday 21 Oct. <41>*

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 21 Oct. <41>*
At last dear wife you see I have arrived here - not without trouble, but
also not without fruit, at least for my health I am a good deal stronger -
walked up nearly the whole hill way. NB. At Coimb. I paid after all no vis-
it - nor shall I return that way have quite enough of rain and Tamil coun-
try and long for my Godgiven Malayalam again. Rode Monday <18/10>* morning
to Cudelur, Tuesday <19/10>* to Mettipalayam: that is walking every day 5
miles and riding 5. It did me much good - both mornings and had no rain
whilst walking. Looked much for plants, Missy much interested in the
change. Wednesday <20/10>* morning under rain and thunder (fine echo) over
the Bovani and Caltaru bridges, then the hill ascent, at noon in Cunnur,
where half by mistake and half from care for Flora who came 1 1/2 hours
after me, I went to the hotel. Yet the bearers would not go farther and the
"Mem" - of the hotel sounded shortly for 2 persons Board etc one day - Rs
10. whether with beer and wine it would have been the same or more I cannot
say - but a strange hotel it is and little attention besides the good warm
room and a comfortable bed. Flora had no blanket, yet a fire would have
dried my clothes sooner in the bangalow than the poor chimney. Well* Missy
knows something new, what hotels are, and very memorable it was to her. -
This morning after going 3 miles astray to Cotagheri, horsekeeper being too
cold and lazy, I got the horse and arrived at Ootacamd, ready you may sup-
pose for breakfast. Lasc. was just going to Cotagheri to meet his brother
in law, so I only greeted him. Fl's bearers took her first to Miss Hale's
by mistake. I sent over to fetch her, yet not till Miss H had taken her in-
to the room and got her to dress. About Mrs L. and children another time. I
thank God to find her composed yet under much care. Shall see the other
pious people by and by. I send the account to look at. Enough for this
time! I hope to stay a week, so you can answer this the day you receive it.
Then I intend to return by Manantoddy rather, and hope to be ready for
preaching Sunday 7 Nov. A letter at M. (written about 31 Oct) would be ac-
ceptable. Greet Children, friends, Joseph, Chinnappen Hannah Vedamuttu and
all others. Not much time now, but hope to write in 2 days more. Yours for
ever H Gundert.


Lieber Fritz Dank fÅr Deinen Brief. Nimm den an meine liebe Frau eben als
an Dich an. GrÅsse den Munschi und sage ich bringe ihm etliche Gîtzen mit
zum SchÑmen. Was fÅr ein armer Kerl er ist! Den Berg hinauf hatte ich ein
curios GefÅhl als mîchte ich hinauf und mÅsse doch hinunter, sang oder
schrie Lobe den HErrn in die Wolken hinein und dachte an Sterben und einen
Abschieds Brief an die Gemeinde.

Hier ein Malayal Lied aus dem alten latein. Åber die Weisen vom Morgenland.
Der Gedanke ist gewi· nett und lehrreich, wie auch die AusfÅhrung seyn mag.
In herzlicher Liebe Dein HGundert
.
         GrÅsse die Knaben            Tit und Rav halten sich gut.

Account of our journey to the Neilgherries
.
                                    HG.
.ns
.dr hg231041
