.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                             Calw 16 Jan 71
My dear wife <und an Paul 16/1>*

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 16 Jan 71
I fancied to have to go but as I felt somewhat feverish in the night with a
little pain in the back I thought it better not to force the journey. May
the Lord be very present with you all. - I think the Dr's advice is good
and must be followed for the present. When any thing new starts up we will
consider again and pray over it. May God help Paul to find his will good
enough for us! I am glad that the appetite is so good. There came a letter
from Lauffen with the list of prices I suppose you are in no hurry about it
but perhaps I better send it.

Yesterday I had Miss[ionar]y meeting, but the Decan wanted to announce a
sermon, and did it, people took no money with them, so it was about 1 Rup.
How curiously they manage things together! Does Mr L. perhaps fear there
may be too much money given for foreign objects?

No news from here. Marie will have told you all before this arrives. <16
Jan 71.>*

So sage ich Dir, lieber Paul, einen guten Tag und wnsche Dir viel Frieden,
der ja kommen kann, wenn auch Wunde, Eiter und Husten dagegen streiten im
Verein mit der K”rperschw„che. Allzu stark sind ja diese Feinde nicht fr
den Starken der erkl„rt hat fr uns zu sein. M”ge Er Dir Seine Gnadengegen-
wart schenken und das Herz zu sich ziehen, wie eine Mutter ihr Kindlein in
die Arme nimmt! Hier sprach ich ber Rom 12,6 ff (die Epistel des Tags) und
stellte vor, was wir alle fr Gottes Ehre thun k”nnten, wenn es mit dem
Opfer der Glieder besser bestellt w„re. Aber wir gehen zimpferlich damit
um, und der vernnftige Gottesdienst ist rar. Gott wecke uns dazu auf!
Vielleicht wenn ich mehr darum gebetet h„tte, konnte ich auch durch die
kalte Reise mit dem Gliederopfer mehr Ernst machen. Wir haben halt faules
Fleisch um den willigen Geist herum!

Adieu. Es kát
.fo -
                                  Dein V.
.ns
.dr HG160171.2
