.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
<Herrn Dr. Gundert>611s Frau aus <Calw>611

                                                             Calw 22 Jan 71
Dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 22 Jan 71
I was glad of the good news, first the decrease of discharge and then esp.
the hope which Pl feels that prayer will be heard. May we offer it without
doubting and yet perfectly sure that if not the exact petition be granted,
something better comes instead of it. That word "soon" has many meanings in
scripture. It says sometimes as Luk 18,8 that God's mind is for very quick
deliverance, and also that he counts as a short time what we think long in-
deed. So we use also the word "soon" in the meaning of the Spirit, God may
explain it as He likes! Also what appears long we will take as quickly
meant and quickly enough executed.
.fo -
.an 3
----------
1. Alte Anschrift von anderer Hand, die Hermann Gundert fÅr seinen Brief
___verwendete und verÑnderte.
.fo +

I am pleased at the taking of the Lord's supper, it is also a mark of con-
fidence well deserved by the good clergyman. - I hope you got the letter
through aunt Emma. On the 16th Mrs Wîhrle was taken ill with inflammation
of lungs, suffered hardly any pain, got weaker, took 19th after 10 at night
the Lord's supper from Decan, at 4 in the morning a sledge brought Mrs
Finckh from Reutlg. In the afternoon her hour came near. She asked her 3
children to pray each at her bedside as in the times of childhood. When
they had finished, she had closed her eyes, and soon the last breath went
off. In the morning she had still said, if you were here, you would now al-
so visit her. Mary had never been there, heard only in the afternoon that
things went on very quickly indeed. I visited yesterday at her house found
only Marie Buser, the 2 other ladies had gone to the WalkmÅhle. The corpse
did not frighten even Thodo, he stood very calmly near it, as it looked so
peaceful. He also wished to be at the burial Monday 2 o'clock, to see how
all is to be finished.

Friday morning before 5 the bells announced a fire in the Vorstadt, oppo-
site the Lîwenmutter (as Thodo calls the Lîwenwirthin). It was queneched
after one hour the upper story burnt where a Mrs Kohler lived with 2 chil-
dren (in the Sonntagsschule). The woman could save most of her things.

Marie passed the evening with Mrs Wîhrle's relations. Today the baptism is
to be in all privacy. Mr Buser and Finkh came yesterday night it seems.

I hope David goes on well with his drill and is no more so often reproved.

Enclosed a letter <(pour toi seule)> from Feddy who has found a ready
friend in a certain widow who informed J H of his wishes and hopes - I am
sorry for it, but such is nature! Let us see what comes from it - this of
course the Lady thinks will be kept secret from the sister, but who knows
how it may embroil matters? Don't write about it, merely pray that God's
good will be done. About the end of the week I hope to pay a visit. - Well
may God keep you all and prepare us for His kingdom.

                            With kisses Your HG
.ns
.dr HG220171.2
