.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                       Calw 13th October 67
Dear Frederic

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 13th October 67
I hope that you have a good day with your papa. he will perhaps have told
you to give us an account of all the things we owe to Uncle Adolph every
thing on one peice of paper be so good and do it when you find time. To day
our dear Paul lies in bed. he has cramps just as he had in Corcelles, yes-
terday after supper he went to bed with a preasure on the stomack we had
had three friends to eat with us, and there was potatoes salade which he
did eat, whether this was the cause or the whet feet he got in going to
Liebensell I do not know. The Dr came and ordered him to drink much luck-
warm water to make him to vomit, after womit he felt released; but we had
put him mustard on the stomach through which the skin was so iritated that
he could not sleep the whole night, and this morning I without thinking
gave weken as usual, he ate two and drunk a cup of Coffee, soon afterward
came the preasure again, so that he had to take an emetic which worked so
slowly that he did not get better before four O'clock afternoon, since that
he has slept and just now did eat a little soupe, the first thing since
this morning. he is in his papas bed so that I can care for him. Dr SchÅtz
thinks it comes from constipation of which he suffered much formerly and
now still a little.

Now 8 OC he has got up and plays piano which is for us a great joy to see
him again so well.

Have you perhaps told grandmama about the stockings to be so kind and have
them washed by the woman who comes from a Village near Stutgart?

Now dear Frederic I will say Adieu with best wishes
.fo -
                                yours J.G.

Paul has visited often Gakenheimer, he will soon return to Stutgart



611I send you here dear Frederic the accounts I have about the debt we have
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier auf besonderem Blatt.
.fo +
by Unkel Adolph; but I think it is not all. I think that I owe more than
this, please look in the book and send me the different accounts in one so
that I know how much we are indepted; please do it as soon as you can. I
thought to send you this note sooner, but it is remaind as you see till
now.

After our return from Tubingen I shall have less to do I hope.

Now Adieu dear Son
.fo -
                                yours J.G.
.ns
.dr HG131067.2
