.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                            <Corcelles>* 17th Sempt <1867>*
611Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 17th Sempt <1867>*
.an 2
----------
1. Brief von Julie Gundert.
I began this yesterday in hope to send it of, and we went to Boudri where
we remaind so late that I could no more write, In Bale the sitting for the
farewell lasted two hours and half. Mr de Sarasin, then Inspector spoke
very nice with every one of the bride separatly, of the four Miss Hahn
pleased me best, the one of Eslingen Miss Stahl who is to marry a weaner
<Digel>* pleased me least, her mother and brother in law were there, Pfarer
Lang spoke too, Mr Christ a little in favour of the Industri departement,
Mr Ostertag refused speaking, as the others had told all that which was
wanted. beside these Gentlemen and Kittle who sope also a litte, these were
no men, but several ladies. We spent some hours with the Inspector where
wee drunk coffee, she had much to relate of her sufferings and troubes,
their second son <Kornelius>* has not passed in the examen, they try the
way of Grace of favour I trust they will be favoured. Mr and Mrs. Wurm, and
Reiff were exceedingly kind to us, and have invited us on our return to
loge again with them. The Inspector excused himself to have had no room all
was full. he thanked heartily for our care of Kittle; he might have gone
with his brother now; but he refused, having not sufficient time to take
leave of his friends! Mrs. Hager is in WÅrtemberg; I have seen only en pas-
sent Mrs. Hoch, Huber, Ostertag. as we left friday early; on our return we
may spend one day and half and visit then the peopel.

Here we found my two sisters pretty well, happy to see us, on Sunday jour
de jeune in which the ministers are permitted to tell the people all they
think or like, we heard the morning Mr Godet an excellent preaching, he re-
minded me of Rochat, a peculiar gift to help the people to see their sins
discovering them in all their forms. after noon it was a poor thing, a
blind leading blinds. it was de belle fontaine d'Peseux, the Minister of
Corcelles Coulon was ill.

In Boudri we found Mr Parret who salutes you Paul had joy with his son who
has just returned from Tubingen where he went to learn German, he has pass-
ed his examen in Lausane; but he has still one in Neuchatel to pass in 8
days. He has seen the Oehlers twice likes him better than Bek.

I have written to Marie Monnard and am waiting for a word about going. We
did not find Mr de Pourtalais nor his wife they had gone to Consise. To day
Paul went very early to a friend Francois Ducomun who lives half an hour
from this. he has a son who was in Germany, he will take Paul on the moun-
tains to see la tablette et le Creux du Vent. he has been converted of la-
te, Paul does not lose his time he goes often to a young man vis a vis. the
father is an old christian too Savere with his only son; the mother has
died with grief regarding the son whom she indulged too much, now Paul trys
with him who speaks Berne Deutch. may God turn his heart, Paul speaks al-
ways frensh! he is most amiabel with his Aunts who have much joye with him.
Tomorrow D.V. we shall go to Neuchatel. Yours of 16 has just arrived I must
wait for Paul to send this and return the one of H. I thank dear Emelie and
salute dear Jettle is she perhaps cooking? as you say that Louise is not
well, what is the matter again, but perhaps Jettle has sent me love I take
it so and send her 2much1 love, shall I return sooner if L is ill? love from
my sisters to you both love to Mrs. Ritter and L. and others The grapes are
not yet ripe. I hope you take daily what is ripe in our garden, yesterday
and today is rather cold. I am very sorry to hear that you have a cold, I
hope your cheast will be spared without having a cough, love to Emelie and
her house


611Lieber Papa!
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Paul Gundert.
.fo +

Blieben also den Donnerstag Åber in Basel (Kinderhaus, Jac. Amman, lieber
Kerle, aber in fleischlicher Weisheit, Inspector, der wegen seines Corne-
lius, im Landexamen durchgefallen, in Noth, seine Frau sehr gedrÅckt, bei
Herrn Reiff Åbernachtet, der mir durch seine Liebe sehr wohlthat, ich nahm
4 LutherbÑndchen mit, in denen ich gegenwÑrtig viel lese), nach Olten, Her-
zogenbuchsee und hieher (so wie Du aufgeschrieben), Tante Uranie holte uns
ab, Tante Henriette wegen ihres trinkenden Fritz gedrÅckt, gebadet einmal,
Besuche bei Collin, in Cormondräche etc, heute nach Budri wollen wir gehen;
ich habe einen jungen El·* Collin gefunden, 10 Tage Ñlter als ich, der in
Bern Deutsch lernte, war frÅher schon angeregt, aber nachgelassen, vor 15
Monaten starb seine Mutter, lieber Mensch, habe Hoffnung fÅr ihn; ein alter
Mann, Pietist, war hier und lud mich morgen ein, mit ihm die Umgegend zu
besehen; ich lerne ziemlich viel franzîs, glaube auch, es schon ein bischen
besser zu kînnen.

                  Mit GrÅ·en an Alle, sammt Dank fÅr das
.fo -
                         Zettelchen und die Briefe
                                            Dein Paul.
Corcelles. 17. Sept. 67.

Dem armen Walter schreibe ich vielleicht von Calw aus, Reiff vielleicht
auch, an dem ich in MB. viel Freude hatte.
.ns
.dr HG170967.2
