.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                        Calw 23 August 1867
Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 23 August 1867
The piece of news I have to write is a sad one. Poor Fritz Wîhrle s Walk-
mÅhle has bunt last night, He returned yesterday from the Stutgart Messtuch
rather disapointed; for he scarsly sold any thing there, This night at half
past three there was a cry fire in Walk he quickly rode in, but the fire
was so terrible that it is almost all destroyed; happily the Italieners saw
the flame while the people were quietly esleep, they sthrow stones at the
windows, soon the peopel where up and through the assistance of the Italie-
ners much of the things were saved. Helfer Schmid helped much too, the De-
can came very soon to Mrs Wîhrle who had remaind in her house, he comforted
her and read with her she told me. Mr. Lamparter with his wife were in Es-
lingen. They are greatly distressed, The house is, it is true secure; but
such fabriques get only a third of the lost by the security. May God set
their mind on the things above! It was really fearful to hear the noise and
the belles ringing, three times, at 4. 5. and 6 oclock, it went on burning.
inspite of the pomps pooring water. I have not yet been there: One says
that Frith W. is weeping the whole time. Many peopel shall now be without
work.

Since I wrote this I went again to see the Wîhr Fritz is still in the MÅh-
le, the place where the Erion live is preserved so that they can still
sleep there, the other things which have been safed have been partly
brought to the Ws house. This evening one expect the Lamparters one dread
to see him, as he has always been against Fritz regarding buying the Walk
MÅhle. Emill Ansel gave <caused> a bad to his parents who looked for him
the whole night searching him every where, with the secret fear he had been
drown in bathing, as one cried fire he appeard, saying he had been watching
a sick man! It does not seem to me that there are important letters among
the ones here waiting for you. Mama and Peregrina have gone to Liebenzel. I
long for rest; for in Stutgart I had little, it was also very hot poor Anna
can scarsly bear to sleep in the room shut up; as Adolph will have it with-
out air, I slept little it was as hot as in India. Now here we have rain
and cool.

Adieu dear papa.
.fo -
                                Yours J.G.

Frederic is not yet quite right, love from all here. Mama Isenbergs Louise
etc.

L. has been with the helfer; but the things are not yet finished her prist
has written to the helfer that the prist here from Weiler Stadt is to speak
with her
.ns
.dr HG250867
