.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                               Calw 25 - ____611 Februar 1867
My dear children

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 25 - ____Februar 1867
Yours of 24th J came yesterday. you were still in bed and dear Charles not
.fo -
.an 2
----------
1. LÅcke im Original.
.fo +
well. So you have to learn patience; not only patience; but something still
more valuable, that is knowlege of the Lord which according to 2 Peter 1,4.
makes us partakes of His holiness. You ask dearest Marie why I wrote so
strongly or rather severely to Samuel about Drs and medecine, He has writ-
ten several times about beautiful cures through his homîopathy, therefore I
took the liberty to tell him to look more to the Lord than to mittle. If I
think that a sickness comes from the devil I will certainly try to drive it
away as soon as possible, but if I believe it comes from the Lord, though
not as punishment mere love I have first to ask my father to let me know
what he has to teach me thereby, mine ears, mine eyes, my heart must be
opened a certain time is perhaps wanted before I know and understand. If I
have grace to wait having to do with the Lord alone I shall get unspeakable
blessings and perhaps if not very likely be cured by Him alone, if after
having heard what He has to tell me I feel free to take medecine I can do
it; but the use of medecine as soon as one is ill is to my mind shut up the
door to the blessings, to the knowlege and experiences God would have me to
do. What is the meaning of the words, wait on the Lord? in deutsch it is so
nicely expressed 2harren1 2beharren1. The profit of hurrying is useful to us
for our whole life, not only for us alone; but also for many others who
trust more the mittles than the Lord. although one say and must say with
the blessing of God. We decieve ourselves with those sentences, trust is
more in Drs and medecine than in the Lord Now dear Marie understand me well
I am not just against mittles; but against the abuse of them, because Chil-
dren of God do as the world in all things. I think that illness, afflic-
tions are given to us in order to teach us to know God, ourselves and the
beast. and to help us to fight and overcome the two last. fight and over-
come does not lay in our nature, rest and ease please us better. Oh the
goodness of the Lord who will have us one day 2for his bride1; and therefore
He must help us on to the stature of Christ, however the flesh may cry and
refuse; on, forward we must go

Glory and praise to our Lord, who is not wearied with us and not ashamed of
us; but will have us like Him. See dearest Marie we have so hard to know
our Saviour know Him as we ought requires a continual look upon Him, a
searching in the word in which he reveals himself to us, how difficult have
we to keep on in prayer to abide in Him. we must be brought to it by force,
The elect have to learn to know their head and the beast self, against whom
they are to stand with the sword, looking to the head, beginner and finish-
er of our faith.

24 these last days the 5 youngest Steiger were with us. I was asked to be
Godmother; as I can not, Jettle has kindly accepted this office for to day.
I am often with you in thoughts tomorrow is Missionconference so Caffee for
the gentlmen. At evening are the Weitbrecht invited as Marthas bridegroom
is here, tuesday wash. So I shall have little time

love from Mrs. Wîhrle, they are washing the cloth for Charls Coat a fine
piece is at work

Mrs Schauber whom I visited yesterday, was anxious about you and wonders
that papa and myself do not lament about you We should take care of you how
can we breathe?

                      A kiss to you three yours J.G.

Be of good cheer dear children, take well your father's trials He means
well with you

We long of course to hear farther how it goes
.ns
.dr HG250267.2
