.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, care of Mrs Weigle, Kotagherry, pd

                                              <Tellicherry 14 Novbr 1847.>*
Ma chere femme.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <14 Novbr 1847.>*
Il y a un mot dans la lettre de Henriette qui me rappelle la place oó Mr
BÅhler devrait faire une fortune. C'est la cousine de Mme Weigle Marie Kern
Ö Kornthal: on pourrait s'appliquer Ö Staudt qui l'a recommandÇ Ö moi, Ö
moi, qui ai eu quelques mots de relations träs prochaines, ou aux parens de
Mme W. Dis lui cela et que je lui souhaite la benediction d'en haut. - Mglg
et Wgle sauront Ö present jusqu'Ö quel point le ComitÇ veut retrancher. Ce-
la ne me ment pas pour un moment. Le Seigneur qui donne les trÇsors spiri-
tuels donnera aussi tant de secours que nous aurons besoin. (32000 Rs par
an de Bale pour toute la Mission) -

J'ai ÇtÇ Ö Cann. et suis rejoui que tout va bien. Ne crois pas l'esprit de
ce que des fräres pourront dire touchant Hebich Notre cher fräre a toujours
quelque chose de nouveau: et peut communiquer Ö chacun qui veut. Honte Ö
cher M. qui ne peut pas encore voir les graces donnees Ö lui. Il nous me-
prise aussi, nous Ö Tell. et au lieu que nous avons ecoutÇ Dieu, il pense
que nous avons suivi H. - Mais qu'importe. Sois silencieuse.

                                  ton HG

Fred dans une santÇ excellente
.fo -
.ns
611Rev. Hermann Gundert, Missionary, Tellitcherry, Bombay, Via Marseille.

                                                           27. Sep... 1847.
.an 3
----------
1. Brief von H. Gundert jun., auf dessen RÅckseite der vorstehende Brief
___geschrieben wurde.
Liebe Eltern!

.fo +
Ich will Euch noch ein Brieflein schreiben, ehe ich in die Vakanz gehe. In
dieser Woche machen wir das Examen; ich bin in der Hauptlocation unter 41
SchÅlern der 18te geworden, und Gustav bekommt das PrÑmium. Ich freue mich
auf das Examen und auf die Zeugnisse, aber am meisten auf die Vakanz. Da
darf ich in Winnenden Trauben essen. Vor einem Jahr war ich mit Euch und
mit dem lieben Mariele in Corcelles bei dem Gro·vater. Ich wei· noch wie
wir miteinander in den Weinberg giengen. Jetzt sind wir 6000 Stunden von
einander, und ihr schlafet, wÑhrend ich Euch schreibe. Vielleicht trÑumt es
Euch von mir. Der liebe Gro·vater ist erst kurz krank gewesen; es ist ihm
nun Gottlob wieder ganz wohl. Die liebe Mutter kann nicht schreiben, weil
sie so im GeschÑft stekt. Gestern waren alle Tanten da schnitzelten Birnen
zum Dîrren auf den Winter

Es grÅ·t Euch Euer Hermann, und
.
Euer Sohn Samuel.
.
                                            Stuttgart d. 21 Septenber 1847.
.ns
.dr HG161147
efforts
might make on Fritz that we prayed earnestly God might enable Fritz to con-
fess to Huber etc before Gr's arrival. But praised be God, all has gone on
well there. The Hubers are leaving today by Pattimar: the occurence has
made great impression on him. I wish it may go deep enough. - We had this
Sunday <7 Novbr>* 8 baptisms (4 small boys and Rama <Noah> Martin <Hassan>
Elieser <Kelen> Uriel <Mari>). I was hardly present, had to go out to meet
Conolly who paid us a visit between 4-5. It is a joy to see Hassan now so
open - Noah is likewise truly changed. The girls are going on peaceably
(many just feverish - etc from landwind)

I hope Cotagiri will agree better with you during the cold season than ei-
ther Oot or Kaity. I waited for letters from home, but it seems they have
not as yet been landed at Cannanore. When I send them I will put another
Miss[ionar]y paper as enveloppe. The Lord give you grace to feed on all his
stores, according to the riches of His grace. Be watchful over yourself,
avoid loud company and all that business of showing work and patterns etc
nonsense - but teach the children and pray with