.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
611Revd Hy Gundert, 2Tellicherry1, Bombay
.an 3
----------
1. Anschrift eines frÅheren Briefes, dessen leere RÅckseite Hermann Gundert
___zu diesem Konzept verwandte.

                                  <Magistrat 2Chatfield1 27/28 August 1847.>*
My dear Sir

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <27/28 August 1847.>*
I have to acknowledge the receipt of your note wherein you wish me to pre-
vent as an irregularity our Catechists going into the Bazar's and near the
Mosques. You may be assured that we advice them carefully to avoid whatever
leads to disturbance; but I should be afraid to pledge myself that no cause
for complaining shall be left to the Moplas. They are many and we few, they
have the Cutwal and Ameen on their side, we none of the authorities. Yes-
terday one of our men was invited by a Mopla to come near his shop to an-
swer some questions - he reads the people begin to amuse themselves with
throwing at him and to make a disturbance - whereupon the preservers of the
peace take him alone up, and let the disturbers go away without a word. It
does not appear to me that this is the way to discourage breaches of the
Peace. Today 2 of the Christians spoke with some Tiers 2not in the Bazar1 but
the Maplas encouraged by their success of yesterday collected and made a
disturbance, and the Cutwal was immediately at hand to seize the 2 authors
of strife, ridicule their religion and make unwarranted use of the regula-
tions existing. I do not say this in the way of complaint, but to shew rea-
son, why I cannot pledge myself to prevent our people from speaking in the
general way in which you wish it. they know that the word of God will cre-
ate enmity, they must not court it, but will have to learn its working in
spite of every precaution. How can we tell them when walking through the
Bazars, that they must hear every question every taunt and ridicule and
never give an answer? We can therefore only promise that we shall do our
best to avoid all strife and all appearance of disobedience to the authori-
ties, whilst maintaining the right of speaking quietly concerning Christ
where ever opportunity offers, going away where none will hear. Our speak-
ing to the people has never during these 8 years been treated as an irregu-
larity: and when Christians were occasionally ill treated in the Bazar a
word of Mr Crozier's was enough to make even the turbulent quiet. Would it
be too much to ask you for similar protection to some few peaceable sub-
jects whilst they are confining their proselytism to so simple a process?
.ns
.dr HG270847.2
