.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                               <16 May 64>*
Dear Marie

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <16 May 64>*
Althoug we have not heard from you I will write you a few lines, yesterday
and to day I have been looking anxiously for a letter from Paul; but in
vain! I feel deeply grieved about him.

Frederic and David are going on nicely, of course Frederic might be live-
lier; I trust it will come to some thing real, both are going very regular-
ly to the Jungling Verrein even Alexander Assenheimer goes with David, so 6
of the confirmanden have joined the verrein. Saturday came a friend of Jet-
te to see papa Mr K”nig he left us on Sunday after noon on the same evening
came the Hoch who left us this morning tuesday. She was nice and aimiable,
the people liked his speach in Stamheim. it was exceedingly full half of
the people were obliged to stay out side of the church. Papa is today very
tired after two heavy days Sunday at Hirsau preaching Kinderlehr Stunde
afterward jungling Verrein Monday morning again preaching at Hirsau after
noon Kinder questioning at Stamheim, one liked him much. I did not hear him
for I was also sitting out side and could not bear any longer the heat of
the Sun so I went in the house.

The brother of Maria Essig has just paid a visit he is Br„utigam with a
widow here who has 3 children 12 years older than himself, her first hus-
band was a Baker and the house belongs to her so his sister with her hus-
band made up the thing quickly for she has verm”gen as Maria says. Apropos
after you have returned we should have a wash, can I ask the washer women
for the first week of June at the end of it? it is not that I wish you to
return sooner than you had intended. I say so only that I may speak with
the women about it? I have a bad finger I cannot sew, The letter of Emma
was very nice and gave us much joy. We are very glad to hear that dear Mama
has so much joy with her two sons.

Miss Seger has just been here she said you have a chatar; but better than
you have been you rather take care and not go out too much so long you are
not well it is very hot one perspire and catches cold sooner. Adieu dear
Marie I wish you joy and happiness in the Lord

.fo -
                                Love to all
                                  Yours. J. Gundert

Your last of 16th has just come for which hearty thanks and hearty kisses
dear Marie. again no news from P!
                               love to all,
                                   Yours very affectly
                                                    Julie G.
.ns
.dr HG170564
