.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                            <27 Sept. 64.>*
Dear Frederic

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: <27 Sept. 64.>*
I was sorry I could not come to Stutgart, please give my love to tante and
to all the dear people there. My object in writing is to beg you to inquire
after Rickle Deuschle. I hear that she is very ill, please go to her house
Weber Strase 60 and ask how she is and where, if you can see her give her
my love and best wishes, give her also one <1 fl.>* fl from me I shall give
it you back. Write me soon all about her. had I gone to Stutgart I would
have recommended her to Mrs. Reihlen; I may perhaps go next week if David
was not accepted in the Closter. I trust you are happy and find it easier
to be kind and lovely towards others.

As soon as our wash is forbei I shall send you your things, you have sent
me only one sheet and no stockings. have you perhaps forgot them? it is a
pity as you want many. Now Adieu dear Frederic
.fo -
                                          your Mama J. Gundert



611Lieber Friedrich!
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Paul Gundert.

.fo +
Ich hab Dir, glaub ich, schon lange nicht mehr geschrieben, nun aber auch
einige Zeilen. Gestern kam mein Compromotional Herman Mayer mit seinem Bru-
der (13 Jahre alt), er ist gegenwÑrtig bei seinem Onkel, Pfarrer Gros, auf
Besuch. Wir gingen dann zusammen (auch Herm. Gros war dabei, der demnÑchst
in's Polytechnikum kommt) nach Hirsau, um dort das alte Kloster zu sehen.

Jetzt ist leider schon die HÑlfte der Vacanz herum: heute in 14 Tagen
geht's wieder ab nach MB.

Sonst gibt es gerade nicht viel wichtiges. David freut sich, um 3 Uhr heute
Mittag seine Vacanz beginnen zu sehen.

Gestern Abend also kam der liebe Vater zurÅck, und zwar von Hirsau an zu
Fu· da dort dem Wagen in Folge der Unvorsichtigkeit des Kutschers ein Un-
fall zustie·.

Doch nun Adieu

Es grÅ·t Dich
.fo -
                     Dein Bruder
                                       Paul
Calw 27. Sept 64.
.ns
.dr HG280964
