.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
                                                            Calw 12 Febr 65
Lieber Frieder

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 12 Febr 65
Die Inlage gibst Du am besten der lieben Tante mit herzlichem Gru· von mir,
da· sie die Sache mit Frau Isenberg bespreche. Je weniger man bei solchen
Sachen Namen nennt, desto besser.

Du siehst, ich hatte eine rechte Ahnung da· das malabarische Impfen bei Dir
nicht recht angeschlagen hatte. Nun wird es auch zu etwas gut sein, da· Du
es nachgeholt hast.

Maries Brief fÅge ich bei

Frau Wz war mit ihm am Mittwoch hier und heiter. öber die Todesstrafe redet
man jetzt viel und ich habe auch im Jglgsverein gestern Abend darÅber ver-
handelt. Pf Gros hat im BlÑttle einem unverschÑmten Rothen, der davon gegen
Waechter geschrieben, ordentlich gedient. öbrigens mîchte ich 2fÅr1 die To-
desstrafe, wo sie erst eingefÅhrt werden sollte nicht sprechen; nur wei·
ich nicht warum sie abschaffen. Der Kînig sollte sein Begnadigungsrecht
nicht mir nichts Dir nichts weggeben.

Ich hoffe Du bist nun wieder wohl. Vom Concert wei· ich nichts und laufe
auch dergleichen nicht nach. Es geht hart genug mit der tÑglichen Aufgabe
fertig zu werden

Nun lebe wohl und grÅ·e Alles
.fo -
                                  Dein V
.ns
611Mr. Frederic Gundert
.an 2
----------
1. Ab hier Brief von Julie Gundert, an obigen Brief angeklebt.
                                                               <10 Feb 65>*
Dearest Frederic.

.fo +
Pardon that I write you on such a bit of paper; but I think you will even
be pleased to see that your sparing bit of letter paper is used for a let-
ter to you. It is already long I have not written to you; but I know that
you get plenty news from our house.

Mrs. Wirz with Mr Wirz spent the evening with us yesterday, they are always
glad to meet us either here or with them at their home

I hope in my next to tell you something about a little one having made its
appearance in this world, she is full of joy and I think nice in her spir-
it.

You are now with dear Tante I hope you do all you can to please her and
help her? it is a great kindness of her to have taken you, by your good be-
haviour you can induce the two other young men to be nice and lovely to-
wards tante, she seeks and will but your good, so show a good exemple of
obedience to your two companions. I am sure you are also thankful towards
Grossmama and have not forgotton to thank her heartily for all her cares
for you till now, also for the trouble she took about your stockings having
them washed and mended often, be so good dear Frederic and pay every time
you have had some thing washed and what is torn <(zerrissen)>* send me that
tante has no trouble about mending

With love to all
.fo -
                              yours affectly
                                        J. Gundert
.ns
.dr HG120265.2
